% title: The Ethics and Economics of Private Property
% author: Hans-Hermann Hoppe
% date: 2004

I. The Problem of Social Order
------------------------------

Alone on his island, Robinson Crusoe can do whatever he pleases. For
him, the question concerning rules of orderly human conduct - social
cooperation - simply does not arise. Naturally, this question can only
arise once a second person, Friday, arrives on the island. Yet even
then, the question remains largely irrelevant so long as no *scarcity*
exists. Suppose the island is the Garden of Eden; all external goods are
available in superabundance. They are "free goods," just as the air that
we breathe is normally a "free" good. Whatever Crusoe does with these
goods, his actions have repercussions *neither* with respect to his own
future supply of such goods *nor* regarding the present or future supply
of the same goods for Friday (and *vice versa*). Hence, it is impossible
that there could ever be a conflict between Crusoe and Friday concerning
the use of such goods. A conflict is only possible if goods are scarce.
Only then will there arise the need to formulate rules that make orderly
- conflict-free - social cooperation possible.

In the Garden of Eden only two scarce goods exist: the physical body of
a person and its standing room. Crusoe and Friday each have only one
body and can stand only at one place at a time. Hence, even in the
Garden of Eden conflicts between Crusoe and Friday can arise: Crusoe and
Friday cannot occupy the same standing room simultaneously without
coming thereby into physical conflict with each other.  Accordingly,
even in the Garden of Eden rules of orderly social conduct must exist -
rules regarding the proper location and movement of human bodies. And
outside the Garden of Eden, in the realm of *scarcity*, there must be
rules that regulate not only the use of personal bodies but also of
*everything* scarce so that *all* possible conflicts can be ruled out.
This is the problem of social order.


II. The Solution: Private Property and Original Appropriation
-------------------------------------------------------------

In the history of social and political thought, various proposals have
been advanced as a solution to the problem of social order, and this
variety of mutually inconsistent proposals has contributed to the fact
that today's search for a single "correct" solution is frequently deemed
illusory. Yet as I will try to demonstrate, a correct solution exists;
hence, there is no reason to succumb to moral relativism. The solution
has been known for hundreds of years, if not for much longer.[^1] In
modern times this old and simple solution was formulated most clearly
and convincingly by Murray N. Rothbard.[^2]

[^1]: See section V below.

[^2]: See Murray N. Rothbard, *Man, Economy, and State* (Auburn, Al.:
    Mises Institute, 1993 [1962]); idem, *Power and Market* (Kansas City:
    Sheed Andrews & McMeel, 1977 [1970]); idem, *The Ethics of Liberty*
    (New York: New York University Press, 1998 [1982]); idem,
    *Egalitarianism as a Revolt against Nature and other Essays* (Auburn,
    Al.: Mises Institute, 2000 [1974]); idem, *The Logic of Action*, 2
    vols.  (Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar, 1997).

Let me begin by formulating the solution - first for the special case
represented by the Garden of Eden and subsequently for the general case
represented by the "real" world of all-around scarcity - and then
proceed to the explanation of why this solution, and no other, is
correct.  In the Garden of Eden, the solution is provided by the simple
rule stipulating that everyone may place or move his own body wherever
he pleases, *provided only that no one else is **already** standing there
and occupying the same space*. And outside of the Garden of Eden, in the
realm of all-around scarcity the solution is provided by this rule:
Everyone is the proper owner of his own physical body as well as of all
places and nature-given goods that he occupies and puts to use by means
of his body, *provided that no one else has **already** occupied or used the
same places and goods before him*. This ownership of "originally
appropriated" places and goods by a person implies his right to use and
transform these places and goods in any way he sees fit, *provided that
he does not thereby forcibly change the physical integrity of places and
goods originally appropriated by another person*. In particular, once a
place or good has been first appropriated, in John Locke's words, by
"mixing one's labor" with it, ownership in such places and goods can be
acquired only by means of a voluntary - contractual - transfer of its
property title from a previous to a later owner.

In light of wide-spread moral relativism, it is worth pointing out that
this idea of original appropriation and private property as a solution
to the problem of social order is in complete accordance with our moral
"intuition." Is it not simply absurd to claim that a person should *not*
be the proper owner of his body and the places and goods that he
originally, i.e., *prior* to anyone else, appropriates, uses and/or
produces by means of his body? For who else, if not he, should be their
owner? And is it not also obvious that the overwhelming majority of
people – including children and primitives – in fact act according to
these rules, and do so as a matter of course?

Moral intuition, as important as it is, is not proof. However, there
also exists proof of the veracity of our moral intuition.

The proof is two-fold. On the one hand, the consequences that follow if
one were to deny the validity of the institution of original
appropriation and private property are spelled out: If person *A* were
*not* the owner of his own body and the places and goods originally
appropriated and/or produced with this body as well as of the goods
voluntarily (contractually) acquired from another previous owner, then
only two alternatives would exist. Either *another* person, *B*, must be
recognized as the owner of *A*'s body as well as the places and goods
appropriated, produced or acquired by *A*, or *both* persons, *A* *and*
*B*, must be considered equal co-owners of all bodies, places and
goods.

In the first case, *A* would be reduced to the rank of *B*'s slave and
object of exploitation. *B* would be the owner of *A*'s body and all
places and goods appropriated, produced and acquired by *A*, but *A* in
turn would not be the owner of *B*'s body and the places and goods
appropriated, produced and acquired by *B*. Hence, under this ruling two
categorically distinct classes of persons would be constituted -
*Untermenschen* such as *A* and *Uebermenschen* such as *B* - to whom
different "laws" apply.  Accordingly, such ruling must be discarded as a
human ethic equally applicable to everyone *qua* human being (rational
animal). From the very outset, any such ruling is recognized as not
universally acceptable and thus cannot claim to represent law. For a
rule to aspire to the rank of a law - a *just* rule - it is necessary
that such a rule apply equally and universally to everyone.

Alternatively, in the second case of universal and equal co-ownership,
the requirement of equal law for everyone would be fulfilled. However,
this alternative would suffer from an even more severe deficiency,
because if it were applied, all of mankind would instantly perish.
(Since every human ethic must permit the survival of mankind, this
alternative must also be rejected.) Every action of a person requires
the use of some scarce means (at least of the person's body and its
standing room), but if all goods were co-owned by everyone, then no one,
at no time and no place, would be allowed to do anything unless he had
previously secured every other co-owner's consent to do so. Yet how
could anyone grant such consent were he not the exclusive owner of his
own body (including his vocal chords) by which means his consent must be
expressed? Indeed, he would first need another's consent in order to be
allowed to express his own, but these others could not give their
consent without having first his, and so it would go on.

This insight into the praxeological impossibility of "universal
communism," as Rothbard referred to this proposal, brings me immediately
to an alternative way of demonstrating the idea of original
appropriation and private property as the only correct solution to the
problem of social order.[^3] Whether or not persons have any rights and, 
if so, which ones, can only be decided in the course of argumentation
(propositional exchange). Justification - proof, conjecture, refutation
- is *argumentative* justification.  Anyone who denied this proposition
would become involved in a performative contradiction because his denial
would itself constitute an argument. Even an ethical relativist would
have to accept this first proposition, which is referred to accordingly
as the *apriori of argumentation*.

[^3]: See also Hans-Hermann Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and
    Capitalism* (Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989); idem, *The
    Economics and Ethics of Private Property* (Boston: Kluwer Academic
    Publishers, 1993).

From the undeniable acceptance - the axiomatic status - of this apriori
of argumentation, two equally necessary conclusions follow. First, it
follows from the apriori of argumentation when there is *no* rational
solution to the problem of conflict arising from the existence of
scarcity. Suppose in my earlier scenario of Crusoe and Friday that
Friday were not the name of a man but of a gorilla. Obviously, just as
Crusoe could face conflict regarding his body and its standing room with
Friday the man, so might he with Friday the gorilla. The gorilla might
want to occupy the same space that Crusoe already occupied. In this
case, at least if the gorilla were the sort of entity that we know
gorillas to be, there would be no rational solution to their conflict.
Either the gorilla would push aside, crush, or devour Crusoe - that
would be the gorilla's solution to the problem - or Crusoe would tame,
chase, beat, or kill the gorilla - that would be Crusoe's solution. In
this situation, one might indeed speak of moral relativism. However, it
would be more appropriate to refer to this situation as one in which the
question of justice and rationality simply would not arise; that is, it
would be considered an extra-moral situation. The existence of Friday
the gorilla would pose a technical, not a moral, problem for Crusoe. He
would have no other choice than to learn how to successfully manage and
control the movements of the gorilla just as he would have to learn to
manage and control other inanimate objects of his environment.

By implication, only if both parties in a conflict are capable of
engaging in argumentation with one another, can one speak of a moral
problem and is the question of whether or not there exists a solution to
it a meaningful question. Only if Friday, regardless of his physical
appearance, is capable of argumentation (even if he has shown himself to
be capable only once), can he be deemed rational and does the question
whether or not a correct solution to the problem of social order exists
make sense. No one can be expected to give *any* answer to someone who has
never raised a question or, more to the point, who has never stated his
own relativistic viewpoint in the form of an argument. In that case,
this "other" cannot but be regarded and treated as an animal or plant,
i.e., as an extra-moral entity. Only if this other entity can pause in
his activity, whatever it might be, step back, and say "yes" or "no" to
something one has said, do we owe this entity an answer and,
accordingly, can we possibly claim that our answer is the correct one
for both parties involved in a conflict.

Moreover, it follows from the apriori of argumentation that everything
that must be presupposed in the course of an argumentation as the
logical and praxeological precondition of argumentation cannot in turn
be argumentatively disputed as regards its validity without becoming
thereby entangled in an internal (performative) contradiction.

Now, propositional exchanges are not made up of free-floating
propositions, but rather constitute a specific human activity.
Argumentation between Crusoe and Friday requires that both have, and
mutually recognize each other as having, exclusive control over their
respective bodies (their brain, vocal chords, etc.) as well as the
standing room occupied by their bodies. No one could propose anything
and expect the other party to convince himself of the validity of this
proposition or deny it and propose something else unless his and his
opponent's right to exclusive control over their respective bodies and
standing rooms were presupposed. In fact, it is precisely this mutual
recognition of the proponent's as well as the opponent's property in his
own body and standing room which constitutes the *characteristicum
specificum* of all propositional disputes: that while one may not agree
regarding the validity of a specific proposition, one can agree
nonetheless on the fact that one disagrees. Moreover, this right to
property in one's own body and its standing room must be considered
*apriori* (or indisputably) justified by proponent and opponent alike.
Anyone who claimed any proposition as valid vis-à-vis an opponent would
already presuppose his and his opponent's exclusive control over their
respective body and standing room simply in order to say "I claim such
and such to be true, and I challenge you to prove me wrong."

Furthermore, it would be equally impossible to engage in argumentation
and rely on the propositional force of one's arguments if one were not
allowed to own (exclusively control) other scarce means (besides one's
body and its standing room). If one did not have such a right, then we
would all immediately perish and the problem of justifying rules - as
well as any other human problem - would simply not exist. Hence, by
virtue of the fact of being alive property rights to other things must
be presupposed as valid, too. No one who is alive can possibly argue
otherwise.

Furthermore, if a person were not permitted to acquire property in these
goods and spaces by means of an act of original appropriation, i.e., by
establishing an objective (intersubjectively ascertainable) link between
himself and a particular good and/or space prior to anyone else, and if
instead property in such goods or spaces were granted to late- comers,
then no one would ever be permitted to begin using any good unless he
had previously secured such a late-comer's consent. Yet how can a
late-comer consent to the actions of an early-comer? Moreover, every
late-comer would in turn need the consent of other and later
later-comers, and so on. That is, neither we, our forefathers, nor our
progeny would have been or would be able to survive if one followed this
rule. However, in order for any person - past, present or future - to
argue anything, survival must be possible; and in order to do just this
property rights cannot be conceived of as being timeless and unspecific
with respect to the number of persons concerned. Rather, property rights
must necessarily be conceived of as originating by means of action at
definite points in time and space by definite individuals. Otherwise, it
would be impossible for anyone to ever say anything at a definite point
in time and space and for someone else to be able to reply. Simply
saying, then, that the first-user-first-owner rule of the ethics of
private property can be ignored or is unjustified implies a performative
contradiction, as one's being able to say so must presuppose one's
existence as an independent decision-making unit at a given point in
time and space.[^4]

[^4]: Note the "natural law" character of the proposed solution to the
    problem of social order - that private property and its acquisition
    through acts of original appropriation are not mere conventions but
    necessary institutions (in accordance with man's nature as a
    rational animal). A convention serves a *purpose*, and an
    *alternative* to a convention exists. For instance, the Latin
    alphabet serves the purpose of written communication. It has an
    alternative, the Cyrillic alphabet.  Hence, we call it a convention.
    What is the purpose of norms? The avoidance of conflict regarding
    the use of scarce physical things.  Conflict- generating norms
    contradict the very purpose of norms. Yet with regard to the purpose
    of conflict avoidance, no alternative to private property and
    original appropriation exists. In the absence of prestabilized
    harmony among actors, conflict can only be prevented if all goods
    are always in the private ownership of specific individuals and it
    is always clear who owns what and who does not. Also, conflicts can
    only be avoided from the very beginning of mankind if private
    property is acquired by acts of original appropriation (instead of
    by mere declarations or words of late-comers).  

III. Misconceptions and Clarifications
--------------------------------------

According to this understanding of private property, property ownership
means the exclusive control of a particular person over specific
*physical* objects and spaces.  Conversely, property rights invasion means
the uninvited *physical* damage or diminution of things and territories
owned by other persons. In contrast, a widely held view holds that the
damage or diminution of the *value* (or price) of someone's property also
constitutes a punishable offense.

As far as the (in)compatibility of both positions is concerned, it is
easy to recognize that nearly every action of an individual can alter
the *value* (price) of someone else's property. For example, when person A
enters the labor or the marriage market, this may change the value of B
in these markets. And when A changes his relative valuations of beer and
bread, or if A himself decides to become a brewer or baker, this changes
the value of the property of other brewers and bakers. According to the
view that *value* damage constitutes a rights violation, A would be
committing a punishable offense vis-à- vis brewers or bakers. If A is
*guilty*, then B and the brewers and bakers must have the right to
*defend* themselves against A's actions, and their defensive actions can
only consist of physical invasions of A and his property. B must be
permitted to physically prohibit A from entering the labor or marriage
market; the brewers and bakers must be permitted to physically prevent A
from spending his money as he sees fit. However, in this case the
physical damage or diminution of the property of others cannot be viewed
as a punishable offense. Since physical invasion and diminution are
defensive actions, they are legitimate. Conversely, if physical damage
and diminution constitute a rights violation, then B or the brewers and
bakers do not have the right to defend themselves against A's actions,
for his actions - his entering of the labor and marriage market, his
altered evaluation of beer and bread, or his opening of a brewery or
bakery - do not affect B's bodily integrity or the physical integrity of
the property of brewers or bakers. If they physically defend themselves
nonetheless, then the right to defense would lie with A. In that case,
however, it can not be regarded as a punishable offense if one alters
the value of other people's property. A third possibility does not
exist.

Both ideas of property rights are not only incompatible, however. The
alternative view - that one could be the owner of the value or price of
scarce goods - is indefensible.  While a person has control over whether
or not his actions will change the *physical* properties of another's
property, he has no control over whether or not his actions affect the
*value* (or price) of another's property. This is determined by *other*
individuals and their evaluations. Consequently, it would be impossible
to know in advance whether or not one's planned actions were legitimate.
The entire population would have to be interrogated to assure that one's
actions would not damage the value of someone else's property, and one
could not begin to act until a universal consensus had been reached.
Mankind would die out long before this assumption could ever be
fulfilled.

Moreover, the assertion that one has a property right in the value of
things involves a contradiction, for in order to claim this proposition
to be valid - universally agreeable - it would have to be assumed that
it is permissible to act *before* agreement is reached. Otherwise, it
would be impossible to ever propose anything. However, if one is
permitted to assert a proposition - and no one could deny this without
running into contradictions - then this is only possible because
*physical* property borders exist, i.e., borders which everyone can
recognize and ascertain independently and in complete ignorance of
others' subjective valuations.[^5]

[^5]: While *no one* could act if *everyone* owned the value of his
    property, it *is* practically possible that *one* person or group,
    A, owns the value of his property and can determine what *another*
    person or group, B, may or may not do with the things under their
    control. This, however, means that B "owns" *neither* the value
    *nor* the physical integrity of the things under his control; that
    is, B and his property are actually owned by A. This rule can be 
    implemented, but it does not qualify as a human ethic. Instead, it
    is a two- class system of exploiting Uebermensch and exploited
    Untermensch.

Another, equally common misunderstanding of the idea of private property
concerns the classification of actions as permissible or impermissible
based *exclusively* on their physical effects, i.e., without taking into
account that every property right has a *history* (temporal genesis).

If A currently physically damages the property of B (for example by air
pollution or noise), the situation must be judged differently depending
on whose property right was established *earlier*. If A's property was
founded first, and if he had performed the questionable activities
before the neighboring property of B was founded, then A may continue
with his activities. A has established an easement. From the outset, B
had acquired dirty or loud property, and if B wants to have his property
clean and quiet he must pay A for this advantage. Conversely, if B's
property was founded first, then A must stop his activities; and if he
does not want to do this, he must pay B for this advantage.  Any other
ruling is impossible and indefensible because as long as a person is
alive and awake, he cannot *not* act. An early-comer cannot, even if he
wished otherwise, wait for a late-comer and his agreement before he
begins acting. He must be permitted to act immediately. And if no other
property besides one's own exists (because a late-comer has not yet
arrived), then one's range of action can be deemed limited only by laws
of nature.  A late-comer can only challenge the legitimacy of an
early-comer if *he* is the owner of the goods affected by the
early-comer's actions. However, this implies that one can be the owner
of un-appropriated things; i.e., that one can be the owner of things one
has not yet discovered or appropriated through physical action. This
means that no one is permitted become the first user of a previously
undiscovered and unappropriated physical entity.

IV. The Economics of Private Property
-------------------------------------

The idea of private property not only agrees with our moral intuitions
and is the sole just solution to the problem of social order; the
institution of private property is also the basis of economic prosperity
and of "social welfare." As long as people act in accordance with the
rules underlying the institution of private property, social welfare is
optimized.

Every act of original appropriation improves the welfare of the
appropriator (at least ex ante); otherwise, it would not be performed.
At the same time, no one is made worse off by this act. Any other
individual could have appropriated the same goods and territories if
only he had recognized them as scarce, and hence, valuable. However,
since no other individual made such an appropriation, no one else can
have suffered a welfare loss on account of the original appropriation.
Hence, the so-called Pareto-criterion (that it is scientifically
legitimate to speak of an improvement of "social welfare" only if a
particular change increases the individual welfare of at least one
person and leaves no one else worse off) is fulfilled. An act of
original appropriation meets this requirement. It enhances the welfare
of one person, the appropriator, without diminishing anyone else's
physical wealth (property). Everyone else has the same quantity of
property as before and the appropriator has gained new, previously
non-existent property. In so far, an act of original appropriation
always increases social welfare.

Any further action with originally appropriated goods and territories
enhances social welfare, for no matter what a person does with his
property, it is done to increase his welfare. This is the case when he
consumes his property as well as when he produces new property out of
"nature." Every act of production is motivated by the producer's desire
to transform a less valuable entity into a more valuable one. As long as
acts of consumption and production do not lead to the physical damage or
diminution of property owned by others, they are regarded as enhancing
social welfare.

Finally, every voluntary exchange (transfer) of appropriated or produced
property from one owner to another increases social welfare. An exchange
of property is only possible if both owners prefer what they acquire
over what they surrender and thus expect to benefit from the exchange.
Two persons gain in welfare from every exchange of property, and the
property under the control of everyone else is unchanged.

In distinct contrast, any deviation from the institution of private
property must lead to social welfare losses.

In the case of universal and equal co-ownership - universal communism
instead of private property - the price to be paid would be mankind's
instant death because universal co-ownership would mean that no one
would be allowed to do anything or move anywhere. Each actual deviation
from a private property order would represent a system of unequal
domination and hegemony. That is, it would be an order in which *one*
person or group - the rulers, exploiters or Uebermenschen - would be
permitted to acquire property *other than* by original appropriation,
production or exchange, while another person or group - the ruled,
exploited or Untermenschen - would be prohibited from doing likewise.
While hegemony is possible, it would involve social welfare losses and
would lead to relative impoverishment.

If A is permitted to acquire a good or territory which B has
appropriated as indicated by visible signs, the welfare of A is
increased at the expense of a corresponding welfare loss on the part of
B. The Pareto criterion is not fulfilled, and social welfare is
sub-optimal. The same is true with other forms of hegemonic rule. If A
prohibits B from originally appropriating a hitherto unowned piece of
nature; if A may acquire goods produced by B without B's consent; if A
may proscribe what B is permitted to do with his appropriated or
produced goods (apart from the requirement that one is not permitted to
physically damage or diminish others' property) - in each case there is
a "winner," A, and a "loser," B. In every case, A increases his supply
of property at the expense of B's corresponding loss of property. In no
case is the Pareto criterion fulfilled, and a sub-optimal level of
social welfare always results.

Moreover, hegemony and exploitation lead to a reduced level of future
production. Every ruling which grants non-appropriators, non-producers
and non-traders control, either partial or full, over appropriated,
produced or traded goods, leads necessarily to a reduction of future
acts of original appropriation, production and mutually beneficial
trade. For the person performing them, each of these activities is
associated with certain costs, and the costs of performing them
increases under a hegemonic system and those of not performing them
decreases. Present consumption and leisure become more attractive as
compared to production (future consumption), and the level of production
will fall below what it otherwise would have been. As for the rulers,
the fact that they can increase their wealth by expropriating property
appropriated, produced or contractually acquired by others will lead to
a wasteful usage of the property at its disposal. Because they are
permitted to supplement their future wealth by means of expropriation
(taxes), present-orientation and consumption (high time preference) is
encouraged, and insofar as they use their goods "productively" at all,
the likelihood of misallocations, miscalculation, and economic loss is
systematically increased.

V. The Classic Pedigree
-----------------------

As noted at the outset, the ethics and economics of private property
presented above does not claim originality. Rather, it is a modern
expression of a "classic" tradition, going back to beginnings in
Aristotle, Roman law, Aquinas, the late Spanish Scholastics, Grotius and
Locke.[^6]

[^6]: For details see Murray N. Rothbard, *Economic Thought Before Adam
    Smith. An Austrian Perspective on the History of Economic Thought,
    Volume I* (Aldershot, UK: Edward Elgar, 1995); also Tom Bethell,
    *The Noblest Triumph. Property and Prosperity Through the Ages* (New
    York: St.  Martin's Press, 1998).

In contrast to the communist utopia of Plato's *Republic*, Aristotle
provides a comprehensive list of the comparative advantages of private
property in *Politics*. First, private property is more productive. "What
is common to the greatest number gets the least amount of care. Men pay
most attention to what is their own; they care less for what is common;
or at any rate they care for it only to the extent to which each is
individually concerned. Even when there is no other cause for
inattention, men are more prone to neglect their duty when they think
that another is attending to it."[^7]

[^7]: Aristotle, *Politics* (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1946), 1261b.

Secondly, private property prevents conflict and promotes peace. When
people have their own separate domains of interest, "there will not be
the same grounds for quarrels, and the amount of interest will increase,
because each man will feel that he is applying himself to what is
his."[^8] "Indeed, it is a fact of observation that those who own common
property, and share in its management, are far more often at variance
with one another than those who have property in severalty."[^9]
Further, private property has existed always and everywhere, whereas
nowhere have communist utopias sprung up spontaneously. Finally, private
property promotes the virtues of benevolence and generosity. It allows
one to be so with friends in need.

[^8]: Ibid, 1263a.

[^9]: Ibid, 1263b.

Roman law, from the *Twelve Tables* to the *Theodosian Code* and the
*Justinian Corpus*, recognized the right of private property as near
absolute. Property stemmed from unchallenged possession, prior usage
established easements, a property owner could do with his property as he
saw fit, and freedom of contract was acknowledged. As well, Roman law
distinguished importantly between 'national' (Roman) law - *ius civile* -
and 'international' law - *ius gentium*.

The Christian contribution to this classic tradition - embodied in St
Thomas Aquinas and the late Spanish Scholastics as well as Protestants
Hugo Grotius and John Locke - is twofold. Both Greece and Rome were
slave-holding civilizations. Aristotle, characteristically, considered
slavery a natural institution. In contrast, Western - Christian -
civilization, not withstanding some exceptions, has been essentially a
society of free men. Correspondingly, for Aquinas as for Locke, every
person had a proprietary right over himself (self-ownership). Moreover,
Aristotle, and classic civilization generally, were disdainful of labor,
trade, and money-making. In contrast, in accordance with the Old
Testament, the Church extolled the virtues of labor and work.
Correspondingly, for Aquinas as for Locke, it was by work, use, and
cultivation of previously unused land that property first came into
existence.

This classic theory of private property, based on self-ownership,
original appropriation (homesteading), and contract (title transfer),
continued to find prominent proponents, such as J. B. Say. However, from
the height of its influence in the eighteenth century until quite
recently, with the advance of the Rothbardian movement, the classic
theory had slipped into oblivion.

For two centuries, economics and ethics (political philosophy) had
diverged from their common origin in natural law doctrine into seemingly
unrelated intellectual endeavors. Economics was a value-free "positive"
science. It asked "what means are appropriate to bring about a given
(assumed) end?" Ethics was a "normative" science (if it was a science at
all). It asked "what ends (and what use of means) is one justified to
choose?" As a result of this separation, the concept of property
increasingly disappeared from both disciplines. For economists, property
sounded too normative; for political philosophers property smacked of
mundane economics.

In contrast, Rothbard noted, such elementary economic terms as direct
and indirect exchange, markets and market prices as well as aggression,
crime, tort, and fraud cannot be defined or understood without a theory
of property. Nor is it possible to establish the familiar economic
theorems relating to these phenomena without the implied notion of
property and property rights. A definition and theory of property must
precede the definition and establishment of all other economic terms and
theorems.

Rothbard's unique contribution, from the early 1960s until his death in
1995, was the rediscovery of property and property rights as the common
foundation of both economics and political philosophy, and the
systematic reconstruction and conceptual integration of modern,
marginalist economics and natural-law political philosophy into a
unified moral science: libertarianism.

V. Chicago Diversions
---------------------

At the time when Rothbard was restoring the concept of private property
to its central position in economics and reintegrating economics with
ethics, other economists and legal theorists associated with the
University of Chicago such as Ronald Coase, Harold Demsetz, and Richard
Posner were also beginning to redirect professional attention to the
subject of property and property rights.[^10]

[^10]: See Ronald Coase, *The Firm, The Market, and the Law* (Chicago,
    University of Chicago Press, 1988); Harold Demsetz, *Ownership, 
    Control, and the Firm* (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1988); Richard 
    Posner, *The Economics of Justice* (Cambridge: Harvard University
    Press, 1981).

However, whereas for Rothbard private property and ethics logically
precede economics, for the latter private property and ethics are
subordinate to economics and economic considerations. According to
Posner, whatever increases social wealth is just.[^11]

[^11]: Posner, *The Economics of Justice*, p. 74: "an act of injustice
    (is defined) as an act that reduces the wealth of society."

The difference between the two approaches can be illustrated considering
one of Coase's problem cases: A railroad runs beside a farm. The engine
emits sparks, damaging the farmer's crop. What is to be done?

From the classic viewpoint, what needs to be established is who was
there first, the farmer or the railroad? If the farmer was there first,
he could force the railroad to cease and desist or demand compensation.
If the railroad was there first, then it might continue emitting sparks
and the farmer would have to pay the railroad to be spark free.

From the Coasean point of view, the answer is twofold. First and
"positively" Coase claims that it does not matter *how* property rights
and liability *are* allocated as long as they are allocated and provided
(unrealistically) that transaction costs are zero.

Coase claims it is wrong to think of the farmer and the railroad as
either "right" or "wrong" (liable), as "aggressor" or "victim." "The
question is commonly thought of as one in which A inflicts harm on B and
what has to be decided is, How should we restrain A? But this is wrong.
We are dealing with a problem of a reciprocal nature. To avoid the harm
to B would be to inflict harm on A. The real question that has to be
decided is, Should A be allowed to harm B or should B be allowed to harm
A? The problem is to avoid the more serious harm."[^12]

[^12]: Ronald Coase, "The Problem of Social Cost," in: idem, *The Firm,
    the Market, and the Law*, p. 96.  The moral perversity of this claim
    is best illustrated by applying it to the case of A raping B.
    According to Coase, A is not supposed to be restrained.. Rather, "we
    are dealing with a problem of a reciprocal nature." In preventing A
    from raping B, harm is inflicted on A because he can no longer rape
    freely. The real question is: Should A be allowed to rape B, or
    should B be allowed to prohibit A from raping him/her? "The problem
    is to avoid the more serious harm."

Further, given the "equal" moral standing of A and B, for the allocation
of economic resources it allegedly does not matter to whom property
rights are initially assigned. Suppose the crop loss to the farmer, A,
is $1000, and the cost of a spark apprehension device (SAD) to the
railroad, B, is $750. If B is found liable for the crop damage, B will
install an SAD or cease operations. If B is found not liable, then A
will pay a sum between $750 and $1000 for B to install an SAD. Both
possibilities result in the installation of an SAD. Now assume the
numbers are reversed: the crop loss is $750, and the cost of an SAD is
$1000. If B is found liable, he will pay A $750, but he will not install
an SAD. And if B is found not liable, A is unable to pay B enough to
install a SAD. Again, both scenarios end with the same result: there
will be *no* SAD. Therefore, regardless of how property rights are
initially assigned, according to Coase, Demsetz and Posner the
allocation of production factors will be the same.

Second and "normatively" - and for the only *realistic* case of
*positive* transaction costs - Coase, Demsetz and Posner demand that
courts assign property rights to contesting parties in such a way that
"wealth" or the "value of production" is maximized.  For the case just
considered this means that if the cost of the SAD is less than the crop
loss, then the court should side with the farmer and hold the railroad
liable.  Otherwise, if the cost of the SAD is higher than the loss in
crops, then the court should side with the railroad and hold the farmer
liable.  Posner offers another example. A factory emits smoke and
thereby lowers residential property values. If property values are
lowered by $ 3 million and the plant relocation cost is $2 million, the
plant should be held liable and forced to relocate. Yet if the numbers
are reversed - property values fall by $2 million and relocation costs
are $3 million - the factory may stay and continue to emit smoke.

Both the positive and the normative claim of Chicago law and economics
must be rejected.[^13] As for the claim that it does not matter to whom
property rights are initially assigned, three responses are in order.
First, as Coase cannot help but admit, it certainly matters to the
farmer and the railroad to whom which rights are assigned. It matters
not just how resources are allocated but also who owns them.

[^13]: See also Walter Block, "Coase and Demsetz on Private Property
    Rights," *Journal of Libertarian Studies*, Vol.1, no. 2, 1977; idem,
    "Ethics, Efficiency, Coasian Property Rights, and Psychic Income: A
    Reply to Harold Demsetz," *Review of Austrian Economics*, Vol. 8,
    no.  2, 1995; idem, "Private Property Rights, Erroneous
    Interpretations, Morality and Economics," Quarterly Journal of
    Austrian Economics, Vol.  3, no. 1, 2000; Gary North, *The Coase
    Theorem: A Study in Epistemology* (Tyler, Texas: Institute for
    Christian Economics, 1992); idem, "Undermining Property Rights:
    Coase and Becker," *Journal of Libertarian Studies*, Vol. 16, no. 4
    (forthcoming).

Second and more importantly, for the value of social production it
matters fundamentally how property rights are assigned. The resources
allocated to productive ventures are not simply given. They themselves
are the outcome of previous acts of original appropriation and
production, and how much original appropriation and production there is
depends on the incentive for appropriators and producers. If
appropriators and producers are the absolute owners of what they have
appropriated or produced, i.e., if no liability vis-à-vis second- or
third-comers arises out of acts of appropriation and production, then
the level of wealth will be maximized. On the other hand, if original
appropriators and producers can be found liable vis-à-vis late comers,
as is implied in Coase's "reciprocity of harm" doctrine, then the value
of production will be lower than otherwise. That is, the "it doesn't
matter" doctrine is counterproductive to the stated goal of wealth
maximization.

Third, Coase's claim that the use of resources will be unaffected by the
initial allocation of property rights is not generally true. Indeed, it
is easy to produce counterexamples. Suppose the farmer does not lose
$1000 in crops because of the railroad's sparks, but he loses a flower
garden worth $1000 to him but worthless to anyone else. If the court
assigns liability to the railroad, the $750 SAD will be installed.  If
the court does not assign liability to the railroad, the SAD will *not*
be installed because the farmer simply does not possess the funds to
bribe the railroad to install an SAD. The allocation of resources is
*different* depending on the initial assignment of property rights.

Similarly, contra the normative claim of Chicago law and economics that
courts should assign property rights so as to maximize social wealth,
three responses are in order. First, any interpersonal comparison of
utility is scientifically impossible, yet courts must engage in such
comparisons willy-nilly whenever they engage in cost-benefit analyses.
Such cost-benefit analyses are as arbitrary as the assumptions on which
they rest. For example, they assume that psychic costs can be ignored
and that the marginal utility of money is constant and the same for
everyone.

Second, as the numerical examples given above show, courts assign
property rights differently depending on changing market data. If the
SAD is less expensive than the crop damage, the farmer is found in the
right, while if the SAD is more expensive than the damage, the railroad
is found in the right. That is, different circumstances will lead to a
re-distribution of property titles. No one can ever be sure of his
property.[^14] Legal uncertainty is made permanent. This seems neither
just nor economical; moreover, who in his right mind would ever turn to
a court that announced that it may re-allocate existing property titles
in the course of time depending on changing market conditions?

[^14]: Posner, *The Economics of Justice*, p. 70-71, admits this with
    captivating frankness: "Absolute rights play an important role in
    the economic theory of the law. ... But when transaction costs are
    prohibitive, the recognition of absolute rights is inefficient.
    ...property rights, although absolute, (are) contingent on
    transaction costs and subservient or instrumental to the goal of
    wealth maximization."

Finally, an ethic must not only have permanency and stability with
changing circumstances; an ethic must allow one to make a decision about
"just or unjust" *prior* to one's actions, and it must concern something
under an actor's control. Such is the case for the classic private
property ethic with its first-use-first-own principle. According to this
ethic, to act justly means that a person employs only justly acquired
means - means originally appropriated, produced, or contractually
acquired from a previous owner - and that he employs them so that no
physical damage to others' property results. Every person can determine
*ex ante* whether or not this condition is met, and he has control over
whether or not his actions physically damage the property of others. In
distinct contrast, the wealth maximization ethic fails in both regards.
No one can determine *ex ante* whether or not his actions will lead to
social wealth maximization. If this can be determined at all, it can
only be determined *ex post*. Nor does anyone have control over whether
or not his actions maximize social wealth. Whether or not they do
depends on *others*' actions and evaluations. Again, who in his right mind
would subject himself to the judgment of a court that did not let him
know in advance how to act justly and how to avoid acting unjustly but
that would judge *ex post*, after the facts?
