% title: Against Intellectual Property
% author: Stephan Kinsella
% date: 2001

PROPERTY RIGHTS: TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE
========================================

All libertarians favor property rights, and agree that property rights
include rights in tangible resources.  These resources include
immovables (realty) such as land and houses, and movables such as
chairs, clubs, cars, and clocks.[^1]

[^1]: Terms like "realty," "personalty," and "tangible" are common-law
    terms; analogous civil-law terms are "immovables," "movables," and
    "corporeals," respectively. See N. Stephan Kinsella, "A Civil Law
    to Common Law Dictionary," *Louisiana Law Review* 54 (1994): 1265–305
    for further differences between civil-law and common-law
    terminology. The term "things" is a broad civil-law concept that
    refers to all types of items, whether corporeal or incorporeal,
    movable or immovable.


Further, all libertarians support rights in one's own
body. Such rights may be called "self-ownership" as long as
one keeps in mind that there is dispute about whether such
body-ownership is alienable in the same way that rights in
homesteadable, external objects are alienable.[^2] In any event,
libertarians universally hold that all tangible scarce resources—whether
homesteadable or created, immovable or movable, or our very bodies—are
subject to rightful control, or "ownership," by specified
individuals.

[^2]: Debate over this issue manifests itself in differences over the
    issue of inalienability and with respect to the law of contract,
    i.e., can we "sell" or alienate our bodies in the same manner that
    we can alienate title to homesteaded property? For arguments against
    body inalienability, see N. Stephan Kinsella, "A Theory of
    Contracts: Binding Promises, Title Transfer, and Inalienability"
    (paper presented at the Austrian Scholars Conference, Auburn,
    Alabama, April 1999); and N. Stephan Kinsella, "Inalienability and
    Punishment: A Reply to George Smith," *Journal of Libertarian
    Studies* 14, no. 1 (Winter 1998–99): 79–93.  For arguments favoring
    such alienability, see Walter Block, "Toward a Libertarian Theory of
    Inalienability: A Critique of Rothbard, Barnett, Gordon, Smith,
    Kinsella, and Epstein," *Journal of Libertarian Studies* 17, no. 2
    (Spring 2003): 39–85.

As we move away from the tangible (corporeal) toward the intangible,
matters become fuzzier. Rights to reputations (defamation laws) and
against blackmail, for example, are rights in very intangible types of
things. Most, though not all, libertarians oppose laws against
blackmail, and many oppose the idea of a right to one's reputation.[^3]

[^3]: For views in opposition to blackmail laws, see Walter Block,
    "Toward a Libertarian Theory of Blackmail," *Journal of Libertarian
    Studies* 15, no. 2 (Spring 2001); Walter Block, "A Libertarian Theory
    of Blackmail," Irish Jurist 33 (1998): 280–310; Walter Block,
    *Defending the Undefendable* (New York: Fleet Press, 1976), pp. 53–54;
    Murray N.  Rothbard, *The Ethics of Liberty* (New York: New York
    University Press, 1998), pp. 124–26; and Eric Mack, "In Defense of
    Blackmail," *Philosophical Studies* 41 (1982): 274.
    
    For libertarian views in favor of blackmail laws, see Robert
    Nozick, *Anarchy, State, and Utopia* (New York: Basic Books, 1974),
    pp.  85–86; and Richard Epstein, "Blackmail, Inc.," *University of
    Chicago Law Review* 50 (1983): 553.

    For libertarian arguments against defamation (libel and slander)
    laws, see Block, *Defending the Undefendable*, pp. 50–53; and
    Rothbard, *The Ethics of Liberty*, pp. 126–28; in favor, see David
    Kelley in *David Kelley vs. Nat Hentoff: Libel Laws: Pro and Con*,
    audiotape (Free Press Association, Liberty Audio, 1987).

Also disputed is the concept of intellectual property (herein referred
to as IP). Are there individual rights to one's intellectual creations,
such as inventions or written works? Should the legal system protect
such rights? Below, I summarize current U.S. law on intellectual
property rights. I then survey various libertarian views on IP rights,
and present what I consider to be the proper view.

SUMMARY OF IP LAW
=================

Types of IP
-----------

Intellectual property is a broad concept that covers several types of
legally recognized rights arising from some type of intellectual
creativity, or that are otherwise related to ideas.[^4] IP rights are
rights to intangible things[^5]—to *ideas*, as expressed (copyrights),
or as embodied in a practical implementation (patents). Tom Palmer puts
it this way: "Intellectual property rights are rights in ideal objects,
which are distinguished from the material substrata in which they are
instantiated."[^6] In today's legal systems, IP typically includes at
least copyrights, trademarks, patents, and trade secrets.[^7]

[^4]: In some European countries, the term "industrial property" is used
    instead of "intellectual property."

[^5]:
    *De La Vergne Refrigerating Mach. Co. v Featherstone*, 147 U.S. 209,
    222, 13 S.Ct. 283, 285 (1893).

[^6]: Tom G. Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified? The
    Philosophy of Property Rights and Ideal Objects," in "Symposium:
    Intellectual Property," *Harvard Journal of Law &amp; Public Policy* 13,
    no.  3 (Summer 1990): 818.  As one commentator has noted,
    "intellectual property may be defined as embracing rights to novel
    ideas as contained in tangible products of cognitive effort." Dale
    A. Nance, "Foreword: Owning Ideas," in "Symposium: Intellectual
    Property," Harvard Journal of Law &amp; Public Policy 13, no. 3 (Summer
    1990): 757.

[^7]: A useful introduction to IP can be found in Arthur R. Miller and
    Michael H.  Davis, *Intellectual Property: Patents, Trademarks, and
    Copyrights in a Nutshell*, 2nd ed. (St.  Paul, Minn.: West
    Publishing, 1990); see also "Patent, Trademark, and Trade Secret,"
    http://profs.lp.findlaw.com/patents/ index.html. For a good
    introduction to patent law, see Ronald B. Hildreth, *Patent Law: A
    Practitioner's Guide*, 3rd ed. (New York: Practising Law Institute,
    1998). More in-depth treatises with further information on IP law
    include Donald S. Chisum, *Chisum on Patents* (New York: Matthew
    Bender, 2000); Melville B. Nimmer and David Nimmer, *Nimmer on
    Copyright* (New York: Matthew Bender, 2000); Paul Goldstein,
    *Copyright: Principles, Law, and Practice* (Boston: Little, Brown,
    1989); J.  Thomas McCarthy, *McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair
    Competition*, 4th ed.  (St. Paul, Minn.: West Group, 1996); and Roger
    M.  Milgrim, *Milgrim on Trade Secrets* (New York: Matthew Bender,
    2000). Useful information, brochures, and pamphlets are available
    from the United States Copyright Office,
    http://lcweb.loc.gov/copyright, and from the Patent and Trademark
    Office of the Department of Commerce, http://www.uspto.gov. Other
    useful sites are listed in this article's appendix and bibliography.


Copyright
---------

Copyright is a right given to authors of "original works," such as
books, articles, movies, and computer programs. Copyright gives the
exclusive right to reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, or to
perform or present the work publicly.[^8] Copyrights protect only the
*form* or *expression* of ideas, not the underlying ideas
themselves.[^9]

[^8]: 17 USC §§ 101, 106 *et pass*.

[^9]: Modern copyright law has superseded and largely preempted "common
    law copyright," which attached automatically from the moment of a
    work's creation, and which essentially conferred only a right of
    *first* publication. Goldstein, *Copyright*, §§ 15.4 *et seq*.

While a copyright may be registered to obtain legal advantages, a
copyright need not be registered to exist.  Rather, a copyright comes
into existence automatically the moment the work is "fixed" in a
"tangible medium of expression," and lasts for the life of the author
plus seventy years, or for a total of ninety-five years in cases in
which the employer owns the copyright.[^10]

[^10]: 17 USC § 302. Due to recent legislation, these terms are twenty
    years longer than under previous law. See HR 2589, the *Sonny Bono
    Copyright Term Extension Act/Fairness in Music Licensing Act of
    1998*.


Patent
------

A patent is a property right in inventions, that is, in devices or
processes that perform a "useful" function.[^11] A new or improved
mousetrap is an example of a type of device which may be patented. A
patent effectively grants the inventor a limited monopoly on the
manufacture, use, or sale of the invention. However, a patent actually
only grants to the patentee the right to *exclude* (i.e., to prevent
others from practicing the patented invention); it does not actually
grant to the patentee the right to *use* the patented invention.[^12]

[^11]: 35 USC § 1 et seq.; 37 CFR Part 1.

[^12]: Suppose *A* invents and patents a better mousetrap, which has a
    Nitinol (memory metal) spring for better snapping ability. Now
    suppose *B* invents and patents a mousetrap with a Nitinol spring
    covered with non-stick coating, to improve the ability to remove
    mouse remains while still providing the Nitinol-driven snapping
    action. *B* has to have a mousetrap with a Nitinol spring in order
    to use his invention, but this would infringe upon *A*'s patent.
    Similarly, *A* cannot add the non-stick coating to his own invention
    without infringing upon *B*'s improvement patent. In such
    situations, the two patentees may cross-license, so that *A* can
    practice B's improvement to the mousetrap, and so *B* can use his
    own invention.

Not every innovation or discovery is patentable. The U.S. Supreme Court
has, for example, identified three categories of subject matter that are
unpatentable, namely "laws of nature, natural phenomena, and abstract
ideas."[^13] Reducing abstract ideas to some type of "practical
application," i.e., "a useful, concrete and tangible result,"[^14] is
patentable, however. U.S. patents, since June 8, 1995, last from the
date of issuance until twenty years from the original filing date of the
patent application[^15] (the previous term was seventeen years from date
of issue).

[^13]: 
    *Diamond v Diehr*, 450 US 175, 185 (1981); see also 35 USC § 101.

[^14]:
    *In re Alappat*, 33 F3d 1526, 1544, 31 USPQ2d 1545, 1557 (Fed Cir
    1994) (in banc). See also *State Street Bank &amp; Trust Co. v Signature
    Financial Group*, 149 F3d 1368 (Fed Cir 1998).

[^15]: 35 USC § 154(a)(2).


Trade Secret
------------

A trade secret consists of any confidential formula, device, or piece of
information which gives its holder a competitive advantage so long as it
remains secret.[^16] An example would be the formula for Coca-Cola®.
Trade secrets can include information that is not novel enough to be
subject to patent protection, or not original enough to be protected by
copyright (e.g., a database of seismic data or customer lists). Trade
secret laws are used to prevent "misappropriations" of the trade secret,
or to award damages for such misappropriations.[^17] Trade secrets are
protected under state law, although recent federal law has been enacted
to prevent theft of trade secrets.[^18]

[^16]: See, e.g., R. Mark Halligan, esq., "Restatement of the Third
    Law—Unfair Competition: A Brief Summary," §§ 39–45,
    http://execpc.com/~mhallign/unfair.html; also see the *Uniform Trade
    Secrets Act* (UTSA), http://nsi.org/Library/Espionage/usta.htm.

[^17]: See the *Uniform Trade Secrets Act* (UTSA).

[^18]: 
    *Economic Espionage Act of 1996*, 18 USC §§ 1831–39.

Trade secret protection is obtained by declaring that the details of a
subject are secret. The trade secret theoretically may last
indefinitely, although disclosure, reverse-engineering, or independent
invention may destroy it.  Trade secrets can protect secret information
and processes, e.g., compilations of data and maps not protectable by
copyright, and can also be used to protect software source code not
disclosed and not otherwise protectable by patent. One disadvantage of
relying on trade secret protection is that a competitor who
independently invents the subject of another's trade secret can obtain a
patent on the device or process and actually prevent the original
inventor (the trade secret holder) from using the invention.


Trademark
---------

A trademark is a word, phrase, symbol, or design used to *identify* the
source of goods or services sold, and to distinguish them from the goods
or services of others. For example, the Coca-Cola® mark and the design
that appears on their soft drink cans identifies them as products of
that company, distinguishing them from competitors such as Pepsi®.
Trademark law primarily prevents competitors from "infringing" upon the
trademark, i.e., using "confusingly similar" marks to identify their own
goods and services. Unlike copyrights and patents, trademark rights can
last indefinitely if the owner continues to use the mark.  The term of a
federal trademark registration lasts ten years, with ten-year renewal
terms being available.[^19]

[^19]: 15 USC § 1501 *et seq*.; 37 CFR Part 2.

Other rights related to trademark protection include rights against
trademark dilution,[^20] certain forms of cybersquatting,[^21] and
various "unfair competition" claims. IP also includes recent legal
innovations, such as the mask work protection available for
semiconductor integrated circuit (IC) designs,[^22] the *sui generis*
protection, similar to copyright, for boat hull designs,[^23] and the
proposed *sui generis* right in databases, or collections of
information.[^24]

[^20]: 15 USC §§ 1125(c), 1127.

[^21]: 15 USC § 1125(d); *Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act*,
    PL 106–113 (1999); HR 3194, S1948.

[^22]: See 17 USC § 901 et seq.

[^23]: See 17 USC § 1301 et seq.

[^24]: See, e.g., HR 354 (introduced 1/19/1999), *Collections of
    Information Antipiracy Act*. See also Jane C. Ginsburg, "Copyright,
    Common Law, and *Sui Generis* Protection of Databases in the United
    States and Abroad," *University of Cincinnati Law Review* 66 (1997):
    151.

In the United States, federal law almost exclusively governs copyrights
and patents, since the Constitution grants Congress the power "to
promote the progress of science and useful arts."[^25] Despite the
federal source of patents and copyrights, various related aspects, such
as *ownership* of patents, are based on state law, which nevertheless tend
to be fairly uniform from state to state.[^26] Federal trademarks, by
contrast, not being explicitly authorized in the Constitution, are based
on the interstate commerce clause and thus only covers marks for goods
and services in interstate commerce.[^27] State trademarks still exist
since they have not been completely preempted by federal law, but
federal marks tend to be more commercially important and powerful. Trade
secrets are generally protected under state, not federal, law.[^28]

[^25]: U.S. Cons., Art I, § 8; *Kewanee Oil Co. v. Bicron Corp*., 415 US
    470, 479, 94 S.Ct.  1879, 1885 (1974).

[^26]: See Paul C. van Slyke and Mark M. Friedman, "Employer's Rights to
    Inventions and Patents of Its Officers, Directors, and Employees,"
    *AIPLA Quarterly Journal* 18 (1990): 127; and *Chisum on Patents*, §
    22.03; 17 USC §§ 101, 201.

[^27]: U.S. Constitution, art. 1, sec. 8, clause 3; *Wickard v Filburn*,
    317 US 111, 63 S. Ct. 82 (1942).

[^28]: But see the federal *Economic Espionage Act of 1996*, 18 USC §§
    1831–39.

Many laymen, including libertarians, have a poor understanding of IP
concepts and law, and often confuse copyrights, trademarks, and patents.
It is widely, and incorrectly, believed that in the U.S. system, the
inventor who files first at the patent office has priority over those
who file later. However, the U.S. system is actually a "first-to-invent"
system, unlike most other countries, which do have a "first-to-file"
system for priority.[^29]

[^29]: Ayn Rand mistakenly assumes that the first to file has priority
    (and then she is at pains to defend such a system). See Ayn Rand,
    "Patents and Copyrights," in *Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal* (New
    York: New American Library, 1967), p.  133. She also confusingly
    attacks the strict antitrust scrutiny given to patent holders.
    However, since patents are government-grant-ed monopolies, it is not
    unjust to use an anti-monopoly law to limit the ability of a patent
    owner to extend this monopoly beyond the bounds intended by the
    patent statute. The problem with antitrust laws is in their
    application to normal, peaceful business dealings, not to limit
    real—i.e., government-granted—monopolies. A similar point might be
    made with regard to Bill Gates, whose fortune has largely been built
    based on the government-granted monopoly inherent in copyright.
    Moreover, as Bill Gates is no libertarian, and doubtlessly does not
    oppose the legitimacy of antitrust laws, one can hardly wring one's
    hands in pity over his having to lie in the very bed he helped make.


IP Rights and Relation to Tangible Property
-------------------------------------------

As noted above, IP rights, at least for patents and copyrights, may be
considered rights in ideal objects. It is important to point out that
ownership of an idea, or ideal object, effectively gives the IP owners a
property right in *every* physical embodiment of that work or invention.
Consider a copyrighted book. Copyright holder *A* has a right to the
underlying ideal object, of which the book is but one example. The
copyright system gives *A* the right in the very *pattern* of words in
the book; therefore, by implication, *A* has a right to *every* tangible
instantiation or embodiment of the book—i.e., a right in every physical
version of the book, or, at least, to every book within the jurisdiction
of the legal system that recognizes the copyright.

Thus, if *A* writes a novel, he has a copyright in this "work." If he
sells a physical copy of the novel to *B*, in book form, then *B* owns
only that one physical copy of the novel; *B* does not own the "novel"
itself, and is not entitled to make a copy of the novel, even using his
own paper and ink. Thus, even if *B* owns the material property of paper
and printing press, he cannot use his own property to create another
copy of *A*'s book. Only *A* has the *right* to *copy* the book (hence,
"copyright").

Likewise, *A*'s ownership of a patent gives him the right to prevent a
third party from using or practicing the patented invention, even if the
third party only uses his own property. In this way, *A*'s ownership of
ideal rights gives him some degree of control—ownership—over the
tangible property of innumerable others. Patent and copyright invariably
transfer partial ownership of tangible property from its natural owner
to innovators, inventors, and artists.


LIBERTARIAN PERSPECTIVES ON IP
==============================

The Spectrum
------------

Libertarian views on IP range from complete support of the fullest gamut
of IP imaginable, to outright opposition to IP rights. Most of the
debate about IP concerns patent and copyright; as discussed below,
trademark and trade secret are less problematic. Therefore, this article
focuses primarily on the legitimacy of patent and copyright.

Pro-IP arguments may be divided into natural-rights and utilitarian
arguments. Libertarian IP advocates tend to adopt the former
justification.[^30] For example, naturalrights, or at least not explicitly
utilitarian, libertarian proponents of IP include, from more to less
extreme, Galambos, Schulman, and Rand.[^31] Among precursors to modern
libertarians, Spooner and Spencer both advocated IP on
moral or natural-rights grounds.[^32]

[^30]: For conventional theories of intellectual property, see
    "Bibliography of General Theories of Intellectual Property,"
    *Encyclopedia of Law and Economics*,
    http://encyclo.findlaw.com/biblio/1600.htm; and Edmund Kitch, "The
    Nature and Function of the Patent System," *Journal of Law and
    Economics* 20 (1977): 265.

[^31]: See Andrew J. Galambos, *The Theory of Volition*, vol. 1, ed. Peter
    N. Sisco (San Diego: Universal Scientific Publications, 1999); J.
    Neil Schulman, "Informational Property: Logorights," *Journal of
    Social and Biological Structures* (1990); and Rand, "Patents and
    Copyrights." Other Objectivists (Randians) who support IP include
    George Reisman, *Capitalism: A Treatise on Economics* (Ottawa, Ill.:
    Jameson Books, 1996), pp. 388–89; David Kelley, "Response to
    Kinsella," *IOS Journal* 5, no. 2 (June 1995): 13, in response to N.
    Stephan Kinsella, "Letter on Intellectual Property Rights," *IOS
    Journal* 5, no. 2 (June 1995): 12–13; Murray I. Franck, "Ayn Rand,
    Intellectual Property Rights, and Human Liberty," 2 audio tapes,
    Institute for Objectivist Studies Lecture; Laissez-Faire Books
    (1991); Murray I.  Franck, "Intellectual Property Rights: Are
    Intangibles True Property," IOS Journal 5, no. 1 (April 1995); and
    Murray I. Franck, "Intellectual and Personality Property," IOS
    Journal 5, no. 3 (September 1995): 7, in response to Kinsella,
    "Letter on Intellectual Property Rights." It is difficult to find
    published discussions of Galambos's idea, apparently because his own
    theories bizarrely restrict the ability of his supporters to
    disseminate them. See, e.g., Jerome Tuccille, *It Usually Begins with
    Ayn Rand* (San Francisco: Cobden Press, 1971), pp. 69–71.  Scattered
    references to and discussions of Galambos's theories may be found,
    however, in David Friedman, "In Defense of Private Orderings:
    Comments on Julie Cohen's ‘Copyright and the Jurisprudence of
    Self-Help'," *Berkeley Technology Law Journal* 13, no. 3 (Fall 1998):
    n. 52; and in Stephen Foerster, "The Basics of Economic Government,"
    http://www.economic.net/articles/ar0001.html.

[^32]: Lysander Spooner, "The Law of Intellectual Property: or An Essay
    on the Right of Authors and Inventors to a Perpetual Property in
    Their Ideas," in *The Collected Works of Lysander Spooner*, vol. 3,
    ed. Charles Shively (1855; reprint, Weston, Mass.: M&amp;S Press, 1971);
    Herbert Spencer, *The Principles of Ethics*, vol.  2 (1893; reprint,
    Indianapolis, Ind.: Liberty Press, 1978), part IV, chap. 13, p.
    121. See also Wendy McElroy, "Intellectual Property: Copyright and
    Patent," http://www.zetetics.com/mac/intpro1.htm and
    http://www.zetetics.com/mac /intpro2.htm; and Palmer, "Are Patents
    and Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp.  818, 825.

According to the natural-rights view of IP held by some libertarians,
creations of the mind are entitled to protection just as tangible
property is. Both are the product of one's labor and one's mind. Because
one owns one's labor, one has a

> natural law right to the fruit of one's labor. Under this view, just as
> one has a right to the crops one plants, so one has a right to the ideas
> one generates and the art one produces.[^33]

This theory depends on the notion that one owns one's body and labor,
and therefore, its fruits, including intellectual "creations." An
individual creates a sonnet, a song, a sculpture, by employing his own
labor and body. He is thus entitled to "own" these creations, because
they result from other things he "owns."

[^33]: Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" p. 819.

There are also utilitarian pro-IP arguments. Federal Judge Richard
Posner is one prominent utilitarian (although not libertarian) IP
advocate.[^34] Among libertarians, anarchist David Friedman analyzes and
appears to endorse IP on "law-and-economics" grounds,[^35] a utilitarian
institutional framework. The utilitarian argument presupposes that we
should choose laws and policies that maximize "wealth" or "utility."
With respect to copyright and patent, the idea is that more artistic and
inventive "innovation" corresponds with, or leads to, more wealth.
Public goods and free-rider effects reduce the amount of such wealth
below its optimal level, i.e., lower than the level we would achieve if
there were adequate IP laws on the books.  Thus, wealth is optimized, or
at least increased, by granting copyright and patent monopolies that
encourage authors and inventors to innovate and create.[^36]


[^34]: Richard A. Posner, *Economic Analysis of Law*, 4th ed. (Boston:
    Little, Brown, 1992), § 3.3, pp. 38–45.  

[^35]: David D. Friedman, "Standards As Intellectual Property: An
    Economic Approach," *University of Dayton Law Review* 19, no. 3
    (Spring 1994): 1109–29; and David D. Friedman, *Law's Order: What
    Economics Has to Do with Law and Why it Matters* (Princeton, N.J.:
    Princeton University Press, 2000), chap. 11. Ejan Mackaay also
    advocates IP on utilitarian grounds, in "Economic Incentives in
    Markets for Information and Innovation," in "Symposium: Intellectual
    Property," *Harvard Journal of Law &amp; Public Policy* 13, no. 3, p. 867.
    Earlier utilitarian advocates of IP include John Stuart Mill and
    Jeremy Bentham. See Arnold Plant, "The Economic Theory Concerning
    Patents for Inventions," in *Selected Economic Essays and Addresses*
    (London: Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul, 1974), p. 44; Roger E. Meiners and
    Robert J. Staaf, "Patents, Copyrights, and Trademarks: Property or
    Monopoly?" in "Symposium: Intellectual Property," *Harvard Journal of
    Law &amp; Public Policy* 13, no. 3, p. 911.

[^36]: See Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp.
    820–21; Julio H. Cole, "Patents and Copyrights: Do the Benefits
    Exceed the Costs?"
    http://www.economia.ufm.edu.gt/Catedraticos/jhcole/Cole%20_MPS_.pdf

On the other hand, there is a long tradition of opposition to patent and
copyright. Modern opponents include Rothbard, McElroy, Palmer, Lepage,
Bouckaert, and myself.[^37] Benjamin Tucker also vigorously opposed IP
in a debate in the nineteenth century individualist-anarchist periodical
Liberty.[^38] These commentators point out the many problems with
conventional utilitarian and natural-rights arguments given to justify
IP rights. These and other shortcomings of standard pro-IP arguments are
surveyed below.

[^37]: See Murray N. Rothbard, *Man, Economy, and State* (Los Angeles:
    Nash Publishing, 1962), pp. 652–60; Murray N. Rothbard, *The Ethics
    of Liberty*, pp.  123–24; Wendy McElroy, "Contra Copyright," *The
    Voluntaryist* (June 1985); McElroy, "Intellectual Property: Copyright
    and Patent"; Tom G. Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian
    Law and Economics Approach," *Hamline Law Review* 12 (1989): 261;
    Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?"; on Lepage,
    see Mackaay, "Economic Incentives," p. 869; Boudewijn Bouckaert,
    "What is Property?" in "Symposium: Intellectual Property," *Harvard
    Journal of Law &amp; Public Policy* 13, no. 3, p. 775; N. Stephan
    Kinsella, "Is Intellectual Property Legitimate?" *Pennsylvania Bar
    Association Intellectual Property Law Newsletter* 1, no. 2 (Winter
    1998): 3; Kinsella, "Letter on Intellectual Property Rights," and
    "In Defense of Napster and Against the Second Homesteading Rule."

    F.A. Hayek also appears to be opposed to patents. See *The
    Collected Works of F.A. Hayek*, vol. 1, *The Fatal Conceit: The Errors
    of Socialism*, ed. W.W. Bartley (Chicago: University of Chicago
    Press, 1989), p. 6; and Meiners and Staaf, "Patents, Copyrights, and
    Trademarks," p. 911. Cole challenges the utilitarian justification
    for patents and copyright in "Patents and Copyrights: Do the
    Benefits Exceed the Costs?" See also Fritz Machlup, U.S. Senate
    Subcommittee On Patents, Trademarks &amp; Copyrights, *An Economic Review
    of the Patent System*, 85th Cong., 2nd Session, 1958, Study No. 15;
    Fritz Machlup and Edith Penrose, "The Patent Controversy in the
    Nineteenth Century," *Journal of Economic History* 10 (1950): 1;
    Roderick T. Long, "The Libertarian Case Against Intellectual
    Property Rights," *Formulations* 3, no. 1 (Autumn 1995); Stephen
    Breyer, "The Uneasy Case for Copyright: A Study of Copyright in
    Books, Photocopies, and Computer Programs," *Harvard Law Review* 84
    (1970): 281; Wendy J. Gordon, "An Inquiry into the Merits of
    Copyright: The Challenges of Consistency, Consent, and Encouragement
    Theory," *Stanford Law Review* 41 (1989): 1343; and Jesse Walker,
    "Copy Catfight: How Intellectual Property Laws Stifle Popular
    Culture," *Reason* (March 2000).

[^38]: McElroy, "Intellectual Property: Copyright and Patent." Also
    strongly opposed to IP was the nineteenth-century Jacksonian
    editorialist William Leggett. See Palmer, "Are Patents and
    Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp. 818, 828–29. Ludwig von Mises
    expressed no opinion on the issue, merely drawing the economic
    implications from the presence or absence of such laws. See *Human
    Action*, 3rd rev. ed. (Chicago: Henry Regnery, 1966), chap. 23,
    section 6, pp. 661–62.


Utilitarian Defenses of IP
--------------------------

Advocates of IP often justify it on utilitarian grounds.  Utilitarians
hold that the "end" of encouraging more innovation and creativity
justifies the seemingly immoral "means" of restricting the freedom of
individuals to use their physical property as they see fit. But there
are three fundamental problems with justifying any right or law on
strictly utilitarian grounds.

First, let us suppose that wealth or utility could be maximized by
adopting certain legal rules; the "size of the pie" is increased. Even
then, this does not show that these rules are justified. For example,
one could argue that net utility is enhanced by redistributing half of
the wealth of society's richest one percent to its poorest ten percent.
But even if stealing some of *A*'s property and giving it to *B*
increases *B*'s welfare "more" than it diminishes *A*'s (if such a
comparison could, somehow, be made), this does not establish that the
theft of *A*'s property is justified. Wealth maximization is not the goal
of law; rather, the goal is justice—giving each man his due.[^39] Even
if overall wealth is increased due to IP laws, it does not follow that
this allegedly desirable result justifies the unethical violation of
some individuals' rights to use their own property as they see fit.

[^39]: According to Justinian, "Justice is the constant and perpetual
    wish to render every one his due. . . . The maxims of law are these:
    to live honestly, to hurt no one, to give every one his due." *The
    Institutes of Justinian: Text, Translation, and Commentary*, trans.
    J.A.C. Thomas (Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1975).

In addition to ethical problems, utilitarianism is not coherent. It
necessarily involves making illegitimate interpersonal utility
comparisons, as when the "costs" of IP laws are subtracted from the
"benefits" to determine whether such laws are a net benefit.[^40] But not
all values have a market price; in fact, none of them do. Mises showed
that even for goods that have a market price, the price does not serve
as a *measure* of the good's value.[^41]

[^40]: On the defects of utilitarianism and interpersonal utility
    comparisons, see Murray N. Rothbard, "Praxeology, Value Judgments,
    and Public Policy," in *The Logic of Action One* (Cheltenham, U.K.:
    Edward Elgar, 1997), esp. pp. 90–99; Rothbard, "Toward a
    Reconstruction of Utility and Welfare Economics," in The Logic of
    Action One; Anthony de Jasay, *Against Politics: On Government,
    Anarchy, and Order* (London: Routledge, 1997), pp. 81–82, 92, 98,
    144, 149–51.

    On scientism and empiricism, see Rothbard, "The Mantle of
    Science," in *The Logic of Action One*; Hans-Hermann Hoppe, "In
    Defense of Extreme Rationalism: Thoughts on Donald McCloskey's *The
    Rhetoric of Economics*," Review of Austrian Economics 3 (1989): 179.

    On epistemological dualism, see Ludwig von Mises, *The Ultimate
    Foundation of Economic Science: An Essay on Method*, 2nd ed. (Kansas
    City: Sheed Andrews and McMeel, 1962); Ludwig von Mises,
    *Epistemological Problems of Economics*, trans.  George Reisman (New
    York: New York University Press, 1981); Hans-Hermann Hoppe, *Economic
    Science and the Austrian Method* (Auburn, Ala.: Ludwig von Mises
    Institute, 1995); and Hoppe, "In Defense of Extreme Rationalism."

[^41]: Mises states: "Although it is usual to speak of money as a
    measure of value and prices, the notion is entirely fallacious. So
    long as the subjective theory of value is accepted, this question of
    measurement cannot arise." "On the Measurement of Value," in *The
    Theory of Money and Credit*, trans. H.E. Batson (1912; reprint,
    Indianapolis, Ind.: Liberty Fund, 1980), p. 51. Also: "Money is
    neither a yardstick of value nor of prices. Money does not measure
    value. Nor are prices measured in money: they are amounts of money."
    Ludwig von Mises, *Socialism: An Economic and Sociological Analysis*,
    3rd rev. ed., trans.  J. Kahane (Indianapolis, Ind.: Liberty Press,
    1981), p. 99; see also Mises, *Human Action*, pp. 96, 122, 204, 210,
    217, and 289.

Finally, even if we set aside the problems of interpersonal utility
comparisons and the justice of redistribution and we plow ahead,
employing standard utilitarian measurement techniques, it is not at all
clear that IP laws lead to any change—either an increase or a
decrease—in overall wealth.[^42] It is debatable whether copyrights and
patents really are necessary to encourage the production of creative
works and inventions, or that the incremental gains in innovation
outweigh the immense costs of an IP system. Econometric studies do not
conclusively show net gains in wealth. Perhaps there would even be
*more* innovation if there were no patent laws; maybe more money for
research and development (R&amp;D) would be available if it were not being
spent on patents and lawsuits. It is possible that companies would have
an even greater incentive to innovate if they could not rely on a near
twenty-year monopoly.[^43]

[^42]: For an excellent survey and critique of the cost-benefit
    justification for patent and copyright, see Cole, "Patents and
    Copyrights: Do the Benefits Exceed the Costs?" For useful
    discussions of evidence in this regard, see Palmer, "Intellectual
    Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics Approach," pp. 300–2;
    Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp. 820–21,
    850–51; Bouckaert, "What is Property?" pp. 812–13; Leonard Prusak,
    "Does the Patent System Have Measurable Economic Value?" *AIPLA
    Quarterly Journal* 10 (1982): 50–59; and Leonard Prusak, "The
    Economic Theory Concerning Patents and Inventions," *Economica* 1
    (1934): 30–51.

[^43]: See Cole, "Patents and Copyrights: Do the Benefits Exceed the
    Costs?" for further examples of costs of patent and copyright laws

There are undoubtedly costs of the patent system. As noted, patents can
be obtained only for "practical" applications of ideas, but not for more
abstract or theoretical ideas. This skews resources away from
theoretical R&amp;D.[^44] It is not clear that society is better off with
relatively more practical invention and relatively less theoretical
research and development. Additionally, many inventions are patented for
defensive reasons, resulting in patent lawyers' salaries and patent
office fees. This large overhead would be unnecessary if there were no
patents. In the absence of patent laws, for example, companies would not
spend money obtaining or defending against such ridiculous patents as
those in the Appendix. It simply has not been shown that IP leads to net
gains in wealth. But should not those who advocate the use of force
against others' property have to satisfy a burden of proof?

[^44]: Plant, "The Economic Theory Concerning Patents for Inventions,"
    p. 43. 
    
    See also Rothbard, *Man, Economy, and State*, pp. 658–59:

    > It is by no means self-evident that patents encourage an
    > increased absolute quantity of research expenditures. But
    > certainly patents distort the *type* of research expenditure
    > being conducted. . . . Research expenditures are therefore
    > *overstimulated* in the early stages before anyone has a patent,
    > and they are *unduly* *restricted* in the period after the
    > patent is received. In addition, some inventions are considered
    > patentable, while others are not. The patent system then has the
    > further effect of artificially stimulating research expenditures
    > in the *patentable* areas, while artificially restricting
    > research in the *nonpatentable* areas.

We must remember that when we advocate certain rights and laws, and
inquire into their legitimacy, we are inquiring into the legitimacy and
ethics of the use of *force*.  To ask whether a law should be enacted or
exist is to ask: is it proper to use force against certain people in
certain circumstances? It is no wonder that this question is not really
addressed by analysis of wealth maximization. Utilitarian analysis is
thoroughly confused and bankrupt: talk about increasing the size of the
pie is methodologically flawed; there is no clear evidence that the pie
increases with IP rights. Further, pie growth does not justify the use
of force against the otherwise legitimate property of others.  For these
reasons, utilitarian IP defenses are unpersuasive.


Some Problems with Natural Rights
---------------------------------

Other libertarian proponents of IP argue that certain ideas deserve
protection as property rights because they are *created*. Rand supported
patents and copyrights as "the legal implementation of the base of all
property rights: a man's right to the product of his mind."[^45] For Rand,
IP rights are, in a sense, the reward for productive work. It is only
fair that a creator reap the benefits of others using his creation. For
this reason, in part, she opposes *perpetual* patent and
copyright—because future, unborn heirs of the original creator are not
themselves responsible for the creation of their ancestors' work.

[^45]: Rand, "Patents and Copyrights," p. 130.

One problem with the creation-based approach is that it almost
invariably protects only *certain types* of creations—unless, that is,
every single useful idea one comes up with is subject to ownership (more
on this below). But the distinction between the protectable and the
unprotectable is necessarily arbitrary. For example, philosophical or
mathematical or scientific truths cannot be protected under current law
on the grounds that commerce and social intercourse would grind to a
halt were every new phrase, philosophical truth, and the like considered
the exclusive property of its creator. For this reason, patents can be
obtained only for so-called "practical applications" of ideas, but not
for more abstract or theoretical ideas. Rand agrees with this disparate
treatment, in attempting to distinguish between an unpatentable
*discovery* and a patentable *invention*. She argues that a "scientific or
philosophical discovery, which identifies a law of nature, a principle
or a fact of reality not previously known" is not *created* by the
discoverer.

But the distinction between creation and discovery is not clearcut or
rigorous.[^46] Nor is it clear why such a distinction, even if clear, is
ethically relevant in defining property rights. No one creates *matter*;
they just manipulate and grapple with it according to physical laws. In
this sense, no one really creates *anything*. They merely rearrange
matter into new arrangements and patterns. An engineer who invents a new
mousetrap has rearranged existing parts to provide a function not
previously performed. Others who learn of this new arrangement can now
also make an improved mousetrap. Yet the mousetrap merely follows laws
of nature. The inventor did not invent the matter out of which the
mousetrap is made, nor the *facts* and laws exploited to make it work.

[^46]: Plant is correct in stating that "[t]he task of distinguishing a
    scientific discovery from its practical application, which may be
    patentable . . . is often baffling to the most subtle lawyer." "The
    Economic Theory Concerning Patents for Inventions," pp. 49–50. On a
    related note, the U.S. Supreme Court has noted that "[t]he
    specification and claims of a patent . . . constitute one of the
    most difficult legal instruments to draw with accuracy." *Topliff v
    Topliff*, 145 US 156, 171, 12 S.Ct. 825 (1892). Perhaps this is
    because patent law has no moorings to objective borders of actual,
    tangible property, and thus is inherently vague, amorphous,
    ambiguous, and subjective. For the latter reason alone, one would
    think that Objectivists—ardent, self-proclaimed defenders of
    objectivity and opponents of subjectivism—would oppose patent and
    copyright.

Similarly, Einstein's "discovery" of the relation E=mc2, once known by
others, allows them to manipulate matter in a more efficient way.
Without Einstein's, or the inventor's, efforts, others would have been
*ignorant* of certain causal laws, of ways matter can be manipulated and
utilized. Both the inventor and the theoretical scientist engage in
creative mental effort to produce useful, new ideas. Yet one is
rewarded, and the other is not. In one recent case, the inventor of a
new way to calculate a number representing the shortest path between two
points—an extremely useful technique—was not given patent protection
because this was "merely" a mathematical algorithm.[^47] But it is
arbitrary and unfair to reward more practical inventors and
entertainment providers, such as the engineer and songwriter, and to
leave more theoretical science and math researchers and philosophers
unrewarded. The distinction is inherently vague, arbitrary, and unjust.

[^47]: *In re Trovato*, 33 USPQ2d 1194 (Fed Cir 1994). Recent case law has
    expanded the types of mathematical and computer algorithms and
    business methods that can be protected by patent. See, e.g., *State
    Street Bank &amp; Trust Co. v Signature Financial Group*, 149 F3d 1368
    (Fed Cir 1998). However, no matter where the line is drawn between
    unpatentable "laws of nature" and "abstract ideas" and patentable
    "practical applications," patent law still necessarily makes a
    distinction between the two.

Moreover, adopting a limited term for IP rights, as opposed to a
perpetual right, also requires arbitrary rules.  For example, patents
last for twenty years from the filing date, while copyrights last, in
the case of individual authors, for seventy years past the author's
death. No one can seriously maintain that nineteen years for a patent is
too short, and twenty-one years too long, any more than the current
price for a gallon of milk can be objectively classified as too low or
too high.

Thus, one problem with the natural-rights approach to validating IP is
that it necessarily involves arbitrary distinctions with respect to what
classes of creations deserve protection, and concerning the length of
the term of the protection.
 
Of course, one way to avoid this difficulty is to claim that
*everything* is protectable by IP, with perpetual (infinite) terms.
Spooner,[^48] for example, advocated perpetual rights for patent and
copyright. Schulman advocates a much broader concept of creations or
ideas protectable by IP. He argues for property rights called
"logorights" in any "logos" that one creates. The logos is the "material
identity" or identity-pattern of created things. The owner of a logos
would own the order or pattern of information imposed upon, or observed
in, material substances.

[^48]: Spooner, "The Law of Intellectual Property"; McElroy,
    "Intellectual Property: Copyright and Patent"; Palmer, "Are Patents
    and Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp. 818, 825.

The most radical of all IP proponents is Andrew Joseph Galambos, whose
ideas, to the extent that I understand them, border on the absurd.[^49]
Galambos believed that man has property rights in his own life
(primordial property) and in all "non-procreative derivatives of his
life."[^50] Since the "first derivatives" of a man's life are his thoughts
and ideas, thoughts and ideas are "primary property." Since action is
based on primary property (ideas), actions are owned as well; this is
referred to as "liberty." Secondary derivatives, such as land,
televisions, and other tangible goods, are produced by ideas and action.
Thus, property rights in tangible items are relegated to lowly secondary
status, as compared with the "primary" status of property rights in
ideas. (Even Rand once elevated patents over mere property rights in
tangible goods, in her bizarre notion that "patents are the heart and
core of property rights."[^51] Can we really believe that there were no
property rights respected before the 1800s, when patent rights became
systematized?)

[^49]: See Galambos, *The Theory of Volition*, vol. 1. Evan R. Soulé, Jr.,
    "What Is Volitional Science?"
    http://www.tuspco.com/html/what_is_v-50_.html. I have read only
    sketchy accounts of Galambos's theories. I also met a real, live
    Galambosian once, much to my surprise (I had supposed that they were
    fictional creations of Tuccille [*It Usually Begins with Ayn Rand*,
    pp. 69–71]), at a Mises Institute conference a few years ago. My
    criticism of Galambos's ideas in what follows only applies to the
    extent that I am properly describing his views.

[^50]: Friedman, "In Defense of Private Orderings," n. 52; Foerster,
    "The Basics of Economic Government."

[^51]: Rand, "Patents and Copyrights," p. 133.

Galambos reportedly took his own ideas to ridiculous lengths, claiming a
property right in his own ideas and requiring his students not to repeat
them;[^52] dropping a nickel in a fund box every time he used the word
"liberty," as a royalty to the descendants of Thomas Paine, the alleged
"inventor" of the word "liberty"; and changing his original name from
Joseph Andrew Galambos (Jr., presumably) to Andrew Joseph Galambos, to
avoid infringing his identically-named father's rights to the name.[^53]

[^52]: Friedman, "In Defense of Private Orderings," n. 52.

[^53]: Tuccille, *It Usually Begins with Ayn Rand*, p. 70. Of course, I
    suppose that any Galambosian other than Galambos himself, having the
    same type of dilemma, would be unable to change his name as a
    solution to the problem, because this solution was Galambos's
    inalienable, "absolute" idea.

By widening the scope of IP, and by lengthening its duration to avoid
making such arbitrary distinctions as Rand does, the absurdity and
injustice caused by IP becomes even more pronounced (as Galambos
demonstrates). And by extending the term of patents and copyrights to
infinity, subsequent generations would be choked by ever-growing
restraints on their own use of property. No one would be able to
manufacture—or even use—a light bulb without getting permission from
Edison's heirs. No one would even be able to build a house without
getting permission from the heirs of the first protohuman who left the
caves and built a hut. No one could use a variety of life-saving
techniques, chemicals, or treatments without obtaining permission of
various lucky, rich descendants.  No one would be able to boil water to
purify it, or use pickling to preserve foods, unless he is granted
license by the originators (or their distant heirs) of such techniques.

Such unbounded ideal rights would pose a serious threat to
tangible-property rights, and would threaten to overwhelm them. All use
of tangible property would by now be impossible, as every conceivable
use of property, every single action, would be bound to infringe upon
one of the millions of past, accreted IP rights, and the human race
would die of starvation. But, as Rand noted, men are not ghosts; we have
a spiritual aspect, but also a physical one.[^54] Any system that
elevates rights in ideas to such an extreme that it overrides rights in
tangible things is clearly not a suitable ethical system for living,
breathing human beings. No one living can actually act in accordance
with such an unrestricted view of IP. The remaining advocates of IP all
qualify their endorsement by limiting the scope and/or terms of IP
rights, thus adopting the ethically arbitrary distinctions noted above.

[^54]: Harry Binswanger, ed., *The Ayn Rand Lexicon: Objectivism from A
    to Z* (New York: New American Library, 1986), pp. 326–27, 467.

A deeper problem for the natural-rights position lies in its undue
emphasis on "creation," instead of scarcity, as giving rise to property
rights, as discussed below.


IP AND PROPERTY RIGHTS
======================

Property and Scarcity
---------------------

Let us take a step back and look afresh at the idea of property rights.
Libertarians believe in property rights in tangible goods (resources).
Why? What is it about tangible goods that makes them subjects for
property rights? Why are tangible goods property?

A little reflection will show that it is these goods' *scarcity*—the
fact that there can be *conflict* over these goods by multiple human
actors.  The very possibility of conflict over a resource renders it
scarce, giving rise to the need for ethical rules to govern its use.
Thus, the fundamental social and ethical function of property rights is
to prevent interpersonal conflict over scarce resources. [^55] As Hoppe
notes:

> [O]nly because scarcity exists is there even a problem of formulating
> moral laws; insofar as goods are superabundant ("free" goods), no
> conflict over the use of goods is possible and no action-coordination is
> needed. Hence, it follows that any ethic, correctly conceived, must be
> formulated as a theory of property, i.e., a theory of the assignment of
> rights of exclusive control over scarce means. Because only then does it
> become possible to avoid otherwise inescapable and unresolvable
> conflict.[^56]

Others who recognize the importance of scarcity in defining what
property is include Plant, Hume, Palmer, Rothbard, and Tucker.[^57]

[^55]: The fundamental economic, or catallactic, role for private
    property rights, along with money prices arising from exchanges of
    property, is to permit *economic calculation*. See N. Stephan
    Kinsella, "Knowledge, Calculation, Conflict, and Law: Review Essay
    of Randy E. Barnett, *The Structure of Liberty: Justice and the Rule
    of Law," Quarterly Journal of Austrian Economics* 2, no. 4 (Winter
    1999): 49–71.

[^56]: Hans-Hermann Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism* 
    (Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989), p. 235 n. 9.

[^57]: Plant, "The Economic Theory Concerning Patents for Inventions,"
    pp.  35–36; David Hume, *An Inquiry Concerning the Principles of
    Morals: With a Supplement: A Dialogue* (1751; reprint, New York:
    Liberal Arts Press, 1957); Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A
    Non-Posnerian Law and Economics Approach," pp.  261–66 and n. 50
    (distinguishing between "static" and "dynamic" scarcity), also pp.
    279–80; Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp.
    860–61, 864–65; and Rothbard, "Justice and Property Rights," in 
    *The Logic of Action One*, p. 274; on Tucker, see McElroy, 
    "Intellectual Property: Copyright and Patent."

Nature, then, contains things that are economically scarce. My use of
such a thing *conflicts* with (excludes) your use of it, and vice versa.
The function of property rights is to prevent interpersonal conflict
over scarce resources, by allocating exclusive ownership of resources to
specified individuals (owners). To perform this function, property
rights must be both *visible* and *just*. Clearly, in order for
individuals to avoid using property owned by others, property borders
and property rights must be objective (intersubjectively ascertainable);
they must be *visible*.[^58] For this reason, property rights must be
objective and unambiguous. In other words, "good fences make good
neighbors."[^59]

[^58]: Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, pp. 140–41. I
    do not mean to restrict rights to the sighted; the term "visible"
    here means observable or discernible. I owe this clarification to
    Gene Callahan.

[^59]: Robert Frost, "The Mending Wall," in North of Boston, 2nd ed.
    (New York: Henry Holt, 1915), pp. 11–13. (Please do not e-mail me
    about this. I do not care what Frost "really" meant in that poem. I
    just like the saying.)

Property rights must be demonstrably *just*, as well as visible, because
they cannot serve their function of preventing conflict unless they are
acceptable as fair by those affected by the rules.[^60] If property
rights are allocated unfairly, or simply grabbed by force, this is like
having no property rights at all; it is merely might versus right again,
i.e., the pre-property rights situation. But as libertarians recognize,
following Locke, it is only the *first occupier* or user of such
property that can be its natural owner. Only the first-occupier
homesteading rule provides an objective, ethical, and nonarbitrary
allocation of ownership in scarce resources.[^61]

[^60]: Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, p. 138.

[^61]: See, on the proper approach to homesteading and the first-user
    rule (the prior-later distinction), Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism
    and Capitalism*, pp. 141–44; Hoppe, *The Economics and Ethics of
    Private Property* (Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1993), pp.
    191–93; Jeffrey M. Herbener, "The Pareto Rule and Welfare
    Economics," *Review of Austrian Economics* 10, no. 1 (1997): 105:
    "Once the item is owned by the first-user, others no longer have the
    option of being its first-user; thus, their preferences at that
    point in time have no bearing on the Pareto-superior nature of the
    acquisition by the first-user"; and de Jasay, *Against Politics*,
    pp.  172–79. On the ethical justifications of such a property-rights
    scheme, see Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, chap. 7;
    Hoppe, *The Economics and Ethics of Private Property*; Rothbard, The
    Ethics of Liberty; Rothbard, "Justice and Property Rights," in *The
    Logic of Action One*; N. Stephan Kinsella, "A Libertarian Theory of
    Punishment and Rights" *Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review* 30 (Spring
    1996): 607; N. Stephan Kinsella, "New Rationalist Directions in
    Libertarian Rights Theory," *Journal of Libertarian Studies* 12, no.
    2 (Fall 1996): 313–26.

When property rights in scarce means are allocated in accordance with
first-occupier homesteading rules, property borders are visible, and the
allocation is demonstrably just. Conflict can be avoided with such
property rights in place because third parties can see and, thus,
sidestep the property borders, and be motivated to do so because the
allocation is just and fair.

But surely it is clear, given the origin, justification, and function of
property rights, that they are applicable only to *scarce* resources.
Were we in a Garden of Eden where land and other goods were infinitely
abundant, there would be no scarcity and, therefore, no need for
property rules; property concepts would be meaningless. The idea of
conflict, and the idea of rights, would not even arise. For example,
your taking my lawnmower would not really deprive me of it if I could
conjure up another in the blink of an eye. Lawnmower-taking in these
circumstances would not be "theft." Property rights are not applicable
to things of infinite abundance, because there cannot be conflict over
such things.

Thus, property rights must have objective, discernible borders, and must
be allocated in accordance with the firstoccupier homesteading rule.
Moreover, property rights can apply only to scarce resources. The
problem with IP rights is that the ideal objects protected by IP rights
are not scarce; and, further, that such property rights are not, and
cannot be, allocated in accordance with the firstoccupier homesteading
rule, as will be seen below. 


Scarcity and Ideas
------------------

Like the magically-reproducible lawnmower, ideas are not scarce. If I
invent a technique for harvesting cotton, your harvesting cotton in this
way would not take away the technique from me. I still have my technique
(as well as my cotton). Your use does not exclude my use; we could both
use my technique to harvest cotton. There is no economic scarcity, and
no possibility of conflict over the use of a scarce resource. Thus,
there is no need for exclusivity.

Similarly, if you copy a book I have written, I still have the original
(tangible) book, and I also still "have" the pattern of words that
constitute the book. Thus, authored works are not scarce in the same
sense that a piece of land or a car are scarce. If you take my car, I no
longer have it.  But if you "take" a book-pattern and use it to make
your own physical book, I still have my own copy. The same holds true
for inventions and, indeed, for any "pattern" or information one
generates or has. As Thomas Jefferson— himself an inventor, as well as
the first Patent Examiner in the U.S.—wrote, "He who receives an idea
from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who
lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me."[^62]
Since use of another's idea does not deprive him of its use, no conflict
over its use is possible; ideas, therefore, are not candidates for
property rights. Even Rand acknowledged that "intellectual property
cannot be consumed."[^63]

[^62]: Thomas Jefferson to Isaac McPherson, Monticello, August 13, 1813,
    letter, in *The Writings of Thomas Jefferson*, vol. 13, ed. A.A.
    Lipscomb and A.E. Bergh (Washington, D.C.: Thomas Jefferson Memorial
    Association, 1904), pp.  326–38. Jefferson recognized that because
    ideas are not scarce, patent and copyright are not natural rights,
    and can be justified only, if at all, on the utilitarian grounds of
    promoting useful inventions and literary works (and, even then, they
    must be created by statute, since they are not natural rights). See
    Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics
    Approach," p. 278 n. 53. Yet this does not mean that Jefferson
    supported patents, even on utilitarian grounds. Patent historian
    Edward C. Walterscheid explains that "throughout his life,
    [Jefferson] retained a healthy skepticism about the value of the
    patents system." "Thomas Jefferson and the Patent Act of 1793,"
    *Essays in History* 40 (1998).

[^63]: Rand, "Patents and Copyrights," p. 131. Mises, in *Human Action*,
    p. 661, recognizes that there is no need to economize in the
    employment of "formulas," "because their serviceableness cannot be
    exhausted." On p. 128, he points out: A thing rendering such
    unlimited services is, for instance, the knowledge of the causal
    relation implied. The formula, the recipe that teaches us how to
    prepare coffee, provided it is known, renders unlimited services. It
    does not lose anything from its capacity to produce however often it
    is used; its productive power is inexhaustible; it is therefore not
    an economic good. Acting man is never faced with a situation in
    which he must choose between the use-value of a known formula and
    any other useful thing.  See also p. 364.

Ideas are not naturally scarce. However, by recognizing a right in an
ideal object, one *creates* scarcity where none existed before. As Arnold
Plant explains:

> It is a peculiarity of property rights in patents (and copyrights) that
> they do not arise out of the scarcity of the objects which become
> appropriated. They are not a *consequence* of scarcity. They are the
> deliberate creation of statute law, and, whereas in general the
> institution of private property makes for the preservation of scarce
> goods, tending . . . to lead us "to make the most of them," property
> rights in patents and copyrights make possible the creation of a
> scarcity of the products appropriated which could not otherwise be
> maintained.[^64]

[^64]: Plant, "The Economic Theory Concerning Patents for Inventions,"
    p. 36.  Also Mises, Human Action, p. 364: "Such recipes are, as a
    rule, free goods as their ability to produce definite effects is
    unlimited.  They can become economic goods only if they are
    monopolized and their use is restricted. Any price paid for the
    services rendered by a recipe is always a monopoly price. It is
    immaterial whether the restriction of a recipe's use is made
    possible by institutional conditions—such as patents and copyright
    laws—or by the fact that a formula is kept secret and other people
    fail to guess it." 

Bouckaert also argues that natural scarcity is what gives rise to the
need for property rules, and that IP laws create an artificial,
unjustifiable scarcity. As he notes:

> Natural scarcity is that which follows from the relationship
> between man and nature. Scarcity is natural when it
> is possible to conceive of it before any human,
> institutional, contractual arrangement. Artificial scarcity,
> on the other hand, is the outcome of such arrangements.
> Artificial scarcity can hardly serve as a justification for
> the legal framework that causes that scarcity. Such an
> argument would be completely circular. On the contrary,
> artificial scarcity itself needs a justification.[^65]

[^65]: Bouckaert, "What is Property?" p. 793; see also pp. 797–99.

Thus, Bouckaert maintains that "only naturally scarce entities over
which physical control is possible are candidates for" protection by
real property rights.[^66] For ideal objects, the only protection possible
is that achievable through *personal* rights, i.e., contract (more on this
below).[^67]

[^66]: Bouckaert, "What is Property?" pp. 799, 803.

[^67]: It could also be argued that ideal objects deserve legal
    protection as property because they are "public goods," that is,
    because of negative externalities which arise if IP is not legally
    protected.  However, the concept of public goods is neither coherent
    nor justifiable. See Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian
    Law and Economics Approach," pp. 279–80, 283–87; Hans-Hermann Hoppe,
    "Fallacies of the Public Goods Theory and the Production of
    Security," *Journal of Libertarian Studies* 9, no. 1 (Winter 1989):
    27; also Hoppe, *The Economics and Ethics of Private Property*, chap.
    1.  

    As Palmer points out:

    > the cost of producing any service or good includes not only
    > labor, capital marketing, and other cost components, but also
    > fencing (or exclusion) costs as well. Movie theaters, for
    > example, invest in exclusion devices like ticket windows,
    > walls, and ushers, all designed to exclude non-contributors
    > from enjoyment of service. Alternatively, of course, movie
    > owners could set up projectors and screens in public parks and
    > then attempt to prevent passers-by from watching, or they
    > could ask government to force all non-contributors to wear
    > special glasses which prevent them from enjoying the movie.
    > ‘Drive-ins,' faced with the prospect of free riders peering
    > over the walls, installed—at considerable expense—individual
    > speakers for each car, thus rendering the publicly available
    > visual part of the movie of little interest. . . . The costs
    > of exclusion are involved in the production of virtually every
    > good imaginable. There is no compelling justification for
    > singling out some goods and insisting that the state
    > underwrite their production costs through some sort of
    > state-sanctioned collective action, simply because of a
    > decision to make the good available on a nonexclusive basis.

    Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics
    Approach," pp. 284–85. There is no way to show that ideas are
    clearly public goods. Moreover, even if ideas were public goods,
    this does not justify treating them as property rights, for the same
    reasons that even wealth-increasing measures are not necessarily
    justified, as discussed above.

Only tangible, scarce resources are the possible object of interpersonal
conflict, so it is only for them that property rules are applicable.
Thus, patents and copyrights are unjustifiable monopolies granted by
government legislation. It is not surprising that, as Palmer notes,
"[m]onopoly privilege and censorship lie at the historical root of
patent and copyright."[^68] It is this monopoly privilege that creates
an artificial scarcity where there was none before.

[^68]: Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics
    Approach," p. 264.

Let us recall that IP rights give to pattern-creators partial rights of
control—ownership—over the tangible property of everyone else. The
pattern-creator has partial ownership of others' property, by virtue of
his IP right, because he can prohibit them from performing certain
actions *with their own property*. Author *X*, for example, can prohibit a
third party, *Y*, from inscribing a certain pattern of words on *Y*'s own
blank pages with *Y*'s own ink.

That is, by merely authoring an original expression of ideas, by merely
thinking of and recording some original *pattern* of information, or by
finding a new way to use his own property (recipe), the IP creator
instantly, magically becomes a partial owner of others' property. He has
some say over how third parties can use their property. IP rights change
the *status quo* by redistributing property from individuals of one class
(tangible-property owners) to individuals of another (authors and
inventors). *Prima facie*, therefore, IP law trespasses against or "takes"
the property of tangible property owners, by transferring partial
ownership to authors and inventors. It is this invasion and
redistribution of property that must be justified in order for IP rights
to be valid. We see, then, that utilitarian defenses do not do the
trick. Further problems with natural-rights defenses are explored
below.


Creation vs. Scarcity
---------------------

Some inconsistencies and problems with natural-rights theories of IP
were pointed out above. This section discusses further problems with
such arguments, in light of the preceding discussion of the significance
of scarcity.

As noted before, some libertarian IP advocates, such as Rand, hold that
*creation* is the source of property rights.[^69] This confuses the nature
and reasons for property rights, which lie in the undeniable fact of
scarcity. *Given* scarcity and the correspondent possibility of conflict
in the use of resources, conflicts are avoided and peace and cooperation
are achieved by allocating property rights to such resources. And the
purpose of property rights dictates the nature of such rules. For if the
rules allocating property rights are to serve as objective rules that
all can agree upon so as to avoid conflict, they cannot be biased or
arbitrary.[^70] For this reason, unowned resources come to be
owned—homesteaded or appropriated—by the *first* possessor.[^71]

[^69]: See Rand, "Patents and Copyrights"; Kelley, "Response to
    Kinsella"; Franck, "Intellectual and Personality Property" and
    "Intellectual Property Rights: Are Intangibles True Property?"

[^70]: See Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, chap. 7, esp. p.
    138.

[^71]: Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, p. 142; de Jasay,
    *Against Politics*, pp.  172–79; and Herbener, "The Pareto Rule and
    Welfare Economics," p. 105.

The general rule, then, is that ownership of a given scarce resource can
be identified by determining who first occupied it. There are various
ways to possess or occupy resources, and different ways to demonstrate
or prove such occupation, depending upon the nature of the resource and
the use to which it is put. Thus, I can pluck an apple from the wild and
thereby homestead it, or I can fence in a plot of land for a farm. It is
sometimes said that one form of occupation is "forming" or "creating"
the thing.[^72] For example, I can sculpt a statue from a block of marble,
or forge a sword from raw metal, or even "create" a farm on a plot of
land.

[^72]: Occupancy or taking possession "can take three forms: (1) by
    directly grasping it physically, (2) by forming it, and (3) by
    merely marking it as ours." Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights
    Morally Justified?" p. 838.

We can see from these examples that creation is relevant to the question
of ownership of a given "created" scarce resource, such as a statue,
sword, or farm, only to the extent that the act of creation is an act of
occupation, or is otherwise evidence of first occupation. However,
"creation" itself does not justify ownership in things; it is neither
necessary nor sufficient. One cannot *create* some possibly disputed
scarce resource without first using the raw materials used to create the
item. But these raw materials are scarce, and either I own them or I do
not. If not, then I do not own the resulting product. If I own the
inputs, then, by virtue of such ownership, I own the resulting thing
into which I transform them.

Consider the forging of a sword. If I own some raw metal (because I
mined it from ground I owned), then I own the same metal after I have
shaped it into a sword. I do not need to rely on the fact of creation to
own the sword, but only on my ownership of the factors used to make the
sword.[^73] And I do not need creation to come to own the factors, since I
can homestead them by simply mining them from the ground and thereby
becoming the first possessor. On the other hand, if I fashion a sword
using *your* metal, I do *not* own the resulting sword. In fact, I may owe
you damages for trespass or conversion.

[^73]: I also do not need to rely on "ownership" of my labor; strictly
    speaking, labor cannot be owned, and labor ownership need not be
    relied on to show that I maintain ownership of my property as I
    transform it.

Creation, therefore, is neither necessary nor sufficient to establish
ownership. The focus on creation distracts from the crucial role of
first occupation as a property rule for addressing the fundamental fact
of scarcity. First occupation, not creation or labor, is both necessary
and sufficient for the homesteading of unowned scarce resources.

One reason for the undue stress placed on creation as the source of
property rights may be the focus by some on *labor* as the means to
homestead unowned resources. This is manifest in the argument that one
homesteads unowned property with which one mixes one's labor *because*
one "owns" one's labor. However, as Palmer correctly points out,
"*occupancy, not labor*, is the act by which external things become
property."[^74] By focusing on first occupancy, rather than on labor, as
the key to homesteading, there is no need to place creation as the fount
of property rights, as Objectivists and others do. Instead, property
rights must be recognized in first-comers (or their contractual
transferees) in order to avoid the omnipresent problem of conflict over
scarce resources. Creation itself is neither necessary nor sufficient to
gain rights in unowned resources. Further, there is no need to maintain
the strange view that one "owns" one's labor in order to own things one
first occupies. Labor is a type of action, and action is not ownable;
rather, it is the way that some tangible things (e.g., bodies) act in
the world.

[^74]: Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" p. 838
    (emphasis added), citing Georg W.F. Hegel, *Hegel's Philosophy of
    Right*, trans. T.M. Knox.  (1821; reprint, London: Oxford University
    Press, 1967), pp. 45–46.

The problem with the natural rights defense of IP, then, lies in the
argument that because an author-inventor "creates" some "thing," he is
"thus" entitled to own it. The argument begs the question by assuming
that the ideal object is ownable in the first place; once this is
granted, it seems natural that the "creator" of this piece of property
is the natural and proper owner of it. However, ideal objects are not
ownable.

Under the libertarian approach, *when* there is a scarce (ownable)
resource, we identify its owner by determining who its first occupier
is. In the case of "created" goods (i.e., sculptures, farms, etc.), it
can sometimes be assumed that the creator is also the first occupier by
virtue of the gathering of raw materials and the very act of creation
(imposing a pattern on the matter, fashioning it into an artifact, and
the like). But it is not creation *per se* that gives rise to ownership,
as pointed out above.[^75] For similar reasons, the Lockean idea of
"mixing labor" with a scarce resource is relevant only because it
*indicates* that the user has possessed the property (for property must be
*possessed* in order to be labored upon). It is not because the labor must
be rewarded, nor because we "own" labor and "therefore" its fruits. In
other words, creation and labor-mixing *indicate* when one has
occupied—and, thus, homesteaded— unowned scarce resources.[^76]

[^75]: Even such advocates of IP as Rand do not maintain that creation
    *per se* is sufficient to give rise to rights, or that creation is
    even necessary. It is not necessary because unowned property can be
    homesteaded by simply occupying it, which involves no "creation"
    unless one stretches the concept without limit. It is also not
    sufficient, because Rand would certainly not hold that creating an
    item using raw material owned by *others* gives the thief-creator
    ownership of the item.  Rand's view even implies that rights,
    including property rights, only arise when there is a possibility of
    conflict. Rand, for example, views rights as a social concept
    arising only when there is more than one person. See Rand, "Man's
    Rights," in *Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal*, p.  321: "A ‘right' is a
    moral principle defining and sanctioning a man's freedom of action
    in a social context." Indeed, as Rand argues, "Man's rights can be
    violated only by the use of physical force," i.e., some conflict
    over a scarce resource. "The Nature of Government," in *Capitalism:
    The Unknown Ideal*, p. 330. On p. 334, Rand attempts (unsuccessfully)
    to justify government, the agent that enforces rights, based on the
    fact that there can be "honest disagreements"—i.e., conflict—even
    among "fully rational and faultlessly moral" men. So, in Rand's
    theory, creation *per se* is neither necessary nor sufficient, just as
    in the theory of property advocated herein.

[^76]: It is for these reasons that I disagree with the
    creation-centered approach of Objectivists David Kelley and Murray
    Franck. According to Franck, "Intellectual and Personality
    Property," p.  7, "although property rights help ‘ration' scarcity,
    scarcity is not the basis of property rights. The view that it is .
    . .  appears to reverse cause and effect in that it sees rights as a
    function of society's needs rather than as inherent in the
    individual who in turn must live in society."

    I am not sure what it means to say that rights, which are
    relational concepts that only apply in a social context, are
    "inherent" in an individual, or that they are "functions" of
    anything.  The former notion verges on the positivistic (in implying
    rights have a "source," as if they could be decreed by God or
    government), and the latter borders on the scientistic (in using the
    precise mathematical and natural-sciences notion of "functions").
    And the argument for property rights is not based on a need to
    "ration" scarce items, but, instead, on the need of individuals to
    employ means to achieve ends, and to avoid interpersonal conflict
    over such means. Thus, scarcity is not the "basis" for property
    rights, but a necessary background condition that must obtain before
    property rights can arise or make sense; conflict can arise only
    over scarce resources, not abundant ones. (As pointed out in the
    preceding footnote, Objectivism also holds that conflict-possibility
    is just such a necessary condition for property rights.)

    Moreover, the scarcity-based argument set forth here is no more
    a "function of society's needs" than is Franck's Objectivist
    approach.  Franck believes that men "need" to be able to create
    things in order to survive—in a social setting where the presence of
    other men makes disputes possible. "Thus," law should protect rights
    to created things. But the scarcity-based argument recognizes that
    men "need" to be able to use scarce resources and that this requires
    conflicts to be avoided; thus, law should allocate property rights
    in scarce resources. Whatever the relative merits of the
    creation-based and the scarcitybased positions, the scarcity
    argument is not more collectivist than the creation argument, and
    the creation argument is not more individualist than the scarcity
    argument.

    > Kelley, in "Response to Kinsella," p. 13, writes: Property
    > rights are required because man needs to support his life by
    > the use of his reason. The primary task in this regard is to
    > create values that satisfy human needs, rather than relying on
    > what we find in nature, as animals do. . . . [T]he essential
    > basis of property rights lies in the phenomenon of creating
    > value. . . .Scarcity becomes a relevant issue when we consider
    > the use of things in nature, such as land, as inputs to the
    > process of creating value. As a general rule, I would say that
    > two conditions are required in order to appropriate things in
    > nature and make them one's property: (1) one must put them to
    > some productive use, and (2) that productive use must require
    > exclusive control over them, i.e., the right to exclude
    > others. . . . Condition (2) holds only when the resource is
    > scarce. But for things that one has created, such as a new
    > product, one's act of creation is the source of the right,
    > regardless of scarcity." (emphasis added).

    My reasons for disagreeing with Kelley here should be apparent, but
    let me point out that all human action, including creation of
    "values," has to rely on the use of scarce means, that is, the
    material stuff of the world. Each act of creation employs things
    made of already existing atoms; neither this fact, nor the
    recognition of it, is animal-like in any pejorative sense. That men,
    as opposed to animals, wish to create higher-order values by using
    scarce resources does not change this analysis. Second, Kelley
    advocates two separate rules for homesteading scarce resources: by
    first use of the resource, and by creating a new, useful, or
    artistic pattern with one's own property, which gives the creator
    the right to stop all others from using a similar pattern, even with
    their own property. As discussed below, these two homesteading rules
    are in conflict, and only the former can be justified. Finally,
    Kelley states that the creator of a new product owns it because he
    created it, regardless of scarcity. If Kelley here means a tangible
    product, such as a mousetrap, such a good is an actual, scarce,
    tangible thing. Presumably, the creator owned the scarce raw
    materials which he transformed into the final product. But he does
    not need to have a right in the ideal object of the mousetrap-idea
    or pattern in order to own the final product itself; he already
    owned the raw materials, and still owns them after he reshapes them.
    If Kelley instead means that, by creating a pattern or idea, one
    acquires the right of control over all others' scarce resources,
    then he is advocating a new type of homesteading rule, which I
    criticize below.

By focusing on creation and labor, rather than on first occupancy of
scarce resources, as the touchstone of property rights, IP advocates are
led to place undue stress on the importance of "rewarding" the labor of
the creator, much as Adam Smith's flawed labor theory of value led to
Marx's even more deeply-flawed communist views on exploitation.[^77] As
noted above, for Rand, IP rights are, in a sense, the reward for
productive work, i.e., *labor*. Rand and other natural-rights IP
proponents seem to adopt a mixed natural rights—utilitarian rationale in
holding that the person who invests time and effort must be rewarded or
benefit from this effort (e.g., Rand opposed perpetual patent and
copyright on the grounds that because distant descendants did not create
their ancestors' works, they deserve no reward).[^78]

[^77]: See, e.g., Murray N. Rothbard, *Economic Thought Before Adam
    Smith: An Austrian Perspective on the History of Economic Thought*,
    vol. 1 (Brookfield, Vt.: Edward Elgar, 1995), p. 453: "It was,
    indeed, Adam Smith who was almost solely responsible for the
    injection into economics of the labour theory of value. And hence it
    was Smith who may plausibly be held responsible for the emergence
    and the momentous consequences of Marx." Even otherwise sound
    thinkers sometimes place undue stress on the importance of labor to
    the homesteading process and its ability to be "owned." Rothbard
    himself, for instance, implies that an individual "owns his own
    person and therefore *his own labor*." Rothbard, "Justice and Property
    Rights," p. 284, emphasis added; see also Rothbard, *The Ethics of
    Liberty*, p. 49. It is a misleading metaphor to speak of "owning
    one's labor" (or one's life or ideas). The right to use or profit
    from one's labor is only a *consequence* of being in control of one's
    body, just as the right to "free speech" is only a consequence, or a
    derivative, of the right to private property, as Rothbard recognized
    in *The Ethics of Liberty*, esp. chap. 15.

[^78]: See also Reisman, *Capitalism*, pp. 388–89.

In addition, in a strange admixture of natural-rights and utilitarian
thinking, the natural-rights IP approach implies that something is
property if it can hold *value*. But as Hoppe has trenchantly shown, one
cannot have a property right in the *value* of one's property, but only
in its physical integrity.[^79] Moreover, many arbitrarily-defined
"things" can acquire economic value if government grants a monopoly over
the thing's use, even if the thing is not otherwise a scarce resource
(e.g., the Postal Service's monopoly power to deliver first-class
letters).

[^79]: Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, pp. 139–41, 237 n. 17.  

Thus, because ideas are not scarce resources in the sense that physical
conflict over their use is possible, they are not the proper subject of
property rights designed to avoid such conflicts.


Two Types of Homesteading
-------------------------

What, though, is really wrong with recognizing "new" property rights?
After all, since new ideas, artistic creations, and innovations
continually enrich us, what is the harm in moving with the times by
recognizing new forms of property? The problem is that if property
rights are recognized in non-scarce resources, this necessarily means
that property rights in tangible resources are correspondingly
diminished. This is because the only way to recognize ideal rights, in
our real, scarce world, is to allocate rights in tangible goods. For me
to have an effective patent right— a right in an idea or pattern, not in
a scarce resource—means that I have some control over everyone else's
scarce resources.

In fact, we can see that IP rights imply a new rule for acquiring rights
in scarce resources, which undercuts the libertarian homesteading
principle. For, according to Lockean-libertarian homesteading, it is the
*first occupier* of a previously unowned scarce resource who homesteads
it, i.e., becomes its owner. A late-comer who seizes control of all or
part of such owned property is simply a thief, because the property is
already owned. The thief effectively proposes a new and arbitrary
homesteading rule to replace the first-occupier rule, namely, the
particularistic rule "I become the owner of property when I forcibly
take it from you." Of course, such a rule is no rule at all, and is
clearly inferior to the first-possessor rule. The thief's rule is
particular, not universal; it is not just, and it certainly is not
designed to avoid conflicts.

Proponents of IP must also advocate a new homesteading rule to
supplement, if not replace, the first-possessor homesteading rule. They
must maintain that there is a *second* way for an individual to come to
own tangible property. To wit, the IP advocate must propose some
homesteading rule along the following lines: "A person who comes up with
some useful or creative idea which can guide or direct an actor in the
*use* of his own tangible property thereby instantly gains a right to
control all other tangible property in the world, with respect to that
property's similar use." This new-fangled homesteading technique is so
powerful that it gives the creator rights in third parties' *already
owned* tangible property.

For example, by inventing a new technique for digging a well, the
inventor can prevent *all others* in the world from digging wells in
this manner, *even on their own property*. To take another example,
imagine the time when men lived in caves. One bright guy—let's call him
Galt-Magnon— decides to build a log cabin on an open field, near his
crops. To be sure, this is a good idea, and others notice it.  They
naturally imitate Galt-Magnon, and they start building their own cabins.
But the first man to invent a house, according to IP advocates, would
have a right to prevent others from building houses on their own land,
with their own logs, or to charge them a fee if they do build houses.
It is plain that the innovator in these examples becomes a *partial
owner* of the tangible property (e.g., land and logs) of others, due
*not* to first occupation and use of that property (for it is already
owned), but due to his *coming up with an idea*.  Clearly, this rule
flies in the face of the first-user homesteading rule, arbitrarily and
groundlessly overriding the very homesteading rule that is at the
foundation of all property rights.

There is, in fact, no reason why merely innovating gives the innovator
partial ownership of property that others already own. Just because a
rule can be proposed does not mean that it is workable or just. There
are many arbitrary rules one could dream up by which property rights
could be allocated. For example, a racist could propose that any white
person can homestead any property already first homesteaded by a black
person. Or: the *third* occupier of a scarce resource becomes its owner.
Or: the state can homestead all capital goods, even if already first
acquired by individuals. Or: by legislative decree, the state can
homestead, in the form of taxes, part of the estates that are already
owned by private individuals. All such arbitrary homesteading rules,
including the IP rule that innovators homestead partial control of all
others' tangible resources, are unjustifiable. They all conflict with
the only justifiable homesteading rule, *first occupation*. None of them
establish fair, objective rules that avoid interpersonal conflict over
scarce resources. Discussions of protecting rights in "ideas,"
"creations," or "things of value" only serves to obscure the fact that
the proponent of IP opposes the unadulterated right to homestead and own
private property.


IP AS CONTRACT
==============

The Limits of Contract
----------------------

The law, then, should protect individual rights to one's body, and to
legitimately acquired scarce resources (property). There is not a
natural right to ideal objects—to one's intellectual innovations or
creations—but only to scarce resources. Many opponents of IP rights
typically support only *contractual* arrangements to protect ideas and
innovations—private contracts between property owners.[^80] Suppose, for
example, that *A* writes a book and sells physical copies of it to
numerous purchasers *B*₁, *B*₂ . . . *B*n, with a contractual condition
that each buyer *B* is obligated not to make or sell a copy of the text.
Under all theories of contract, any of the buyers *B* becomes liable to
*A*, at least for damages, if he violates these provisions.[^81]

[^80]: See McElroy, "Intellectual Property: Copyright and Patent"; Roy
    Halliday, "Ideas as Property," *Formulations* 4, no. 4 (Summer 1997);
    Bouckaert, "What is Property?" pp. 804–5; Palmer, "Intellectual
    Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics Approach," pp. 280,
    291–95; Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" pp.
    821 n. 8, 851–55, 864; and Richard O. Hammer, "Intellectual Property
    Rights Viewed as Contracts," *Formulations* 3, no. 2 (Winter 1995–96).

[^81]: See, e.g., Kinsella, "A Theory of Contracts"; Rothbard, *The
    Ethics of Liberty*, chap. 19; Williamson M. Evers, "Toward a
    Reformulation of the Law of Contracts," *Journal of Libertarian
    Studies* 1, no. 1 (Winter 1977): 3–13; and Randy E.  Barnett, "A
    Consent Theory of Contract," *Columbia Law Review* 86 (1986):
    269–321.

But the advocates of the contractual approach to IP are mistaken if they
believe that private contract can be used to recreate the same type of
protection afforded by modern IP rights. Patent and copyright are good
against *all* third parties, regardless of their consent to a contract.
They are *real* rights that bind everyone, in the same way that my title
to a parcel of land binds *everyone* to respect my property—even if they
do not have a contract with me. A contract, by contrast, binds*only* 
parties to the contract. It is like private law between the
parties.[^82] It does not bind third parties, i.e., those not in
"privity" with the original parties.[^83]

[^82]: Under the international law meta-rule*pacta sunt servanda* 
    (contracts are to be observed), contracts between sovereigns
    (states, in the international law context) create a "law of the
    agreement" between the parties. See Paul E. Comeaux and N. Stephan
    Kinsella, *Protecting Foreign Investment Under International Law:
    Legal Aspects of Political Risk* (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana
    Publications, 1997), chaps. 2, 5.

[^83]: For a definition of "privity of contract," see *Black's Law
    Dictionary*, 6th ed. (St.  Paul, Minn.: West Publishing, 1990), p.
    1199. See also, in the IP context, Bouckaert, "What is Property?"
    pp. 795, 805.

Thus, if the book purchaser *B* relates to third parties *T* the plot of
the purchased novel, these third parties *T* are not bound, in general,
by the original contractual obligation between *A* and *B*. If I learn
how to adjust my car's carburetor to double its efficiency, or if I
learn of a poem or movie plot someone else has written, why should I
have to pretend that I am ignorant of these things, and refrain from
acting on this knowledge? I have not obligated myself by contract to the
creator.  I do not deny that contractual obligations can be implicit or
tacit, but there is not even an implicit contract in such situations.

Nor can it be said as a general matter that I have stolen or
fraudulently acquired the information, as there are many legitimate ways
for individuals to acquire information. Artistic works, by their very
nature, typically are made public. Scientific discoveries and
innovations likewise can become known beyond the parties to
confidentiality agreements. And it certainly cannot be said that my use
of my carburetor, or writing a novel using the same plot, physically
interferes with the creator's use of his own tangible property. It does
not even prevent the creator from using his own carburetor idea to
improve his own car or others', or from using that plot.

So, my adjusting my carburetor is not a breach of contract; it is not
theft; and it is not physical trespass on the inventor's tangible
property. Twiddling my carburetor does not violate the inventor's
rights. At most, my use of this idea will diminish its *value* to the
inventor by hampering his ability to monopolistically exploit it. As we
have seen, however, one cannot have a right to the value of one's
property, but only in its physical integrity.[^84]

[^84]: Hoppe, *A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism*, pp. 139–41, 237 n.
    17.

Thus, the use of contract only gets us so far. A book publisher may
be able to contractually obligate his purchasers to not copy his book,
but he cannot prevent third parties from publishing and selling it,
unless some contract prohibits this action.


Contract vs. Reserved Rights
----------------------------

Third parties, then, who are not parties to the contract and are not in
privity with the contractual obligor and obligee, are not bound by the
contractual relationship. For this reason, although an innovator can use
contract to stop specified individuals from freely using his ideas, it
is difficult to use standard contract law to prevent third parties from
using ideas they glean from others. Perhaps sensing this problem, some
quasi-IP advocates shift from a purely contractual approach to a
"reservation of rights" approach in which property rights in tangible
resources are seen as a divisible bundle of rights.

For example, under the standard bundle-of-rights view, a landowner can
sell the mineral estate to an oil company while retaining all rights to
the surface, except for an easement (servitude) granting passage to a
neighbor and a life estate (usufruct) granting use of the surface estate
to his mother. Drawing on the bundle-of-rights notion, the "reservation
of rights" approach holds that a type of "private" IP can be privately
generated by creatively "reserving rights" to *reproduce* tangible items
sold to purchasers.  Rothbard, for example, argues that one can grant
conditional "ownership" (of "knowledge") to another, while "retaining
the ownership power to disseminate the knowledge of the invention." Or,
Brown, the inventor of an improved mousetrap, can stamp it "copyright"
and thereby sell the right to each mousetrap *except for* the right to
reproduce it. Like the real rights accompanying statutory IP, such
"reservations" allegedly bind everyone, not just those who have
contracted with the original seller. Thus, third parties who become
aware of, purchase, or otherwise come into possession of the restricted
item also cannot reproduce it—*not* because they have entered into a
contract with Brown, but because "no one can acquire a *greater* property
title in something than has already been given away or sold." In other
words, the third party acquires a tangible thing—a book or a mousetrap,
say—but it is somehow "missing" the "right-to-copy" part of the bundle
of rights that "normally" constitutes all rights to the thing. Or, the
third party acquires "ownership" of information, from a person who did
not own the information and, thus, was not entitled to transmit it to
others.[^85]

[^85]: Rothbard, *The Ethics of Liberty*, p. 123.

But surely something is amiss here. Suppose that *A* writes a novel and
sells a first copy, BOOK₁, without restriction (i.e., without a
reservation of rights) to *B*₁; and a second copy, BOOK₂, to *B*₂—but
"reserving" the book's inherent "right to copy." The two books, BOOK₁
and BOOK₂, appear to third parties to be otherwise identical. Yet they
are not: one is incomplete; the other somehow contains more mystical
"rights-essence" within its covers. Suppose *B*₁ and *B*₂ leave these
books on a park bench, where they are discovered by third party *T*.
According to Rothbard, BOOK₂ is "missing" the "right to copy," much
like an electronic toy that is sold "batteries not included." It is as
if there is an invisible, mystical tendril of "reproduction-ownership"
stretching from BOOK₂ back to its true owner *A*, wherever he may be.
Thus, even if *T* finds and homesteads the abandoned BOOK₂, this book
simply does not contain "within itself" the right to permit the owner to
copy it. It is being continually siphoned away by a rights wormhole
which connects the item to owner *A*. Thus, if *T* homesteads the book,
he still homesteads no more than he acquires. *T* homesteads only a book
without a right to copy "built in," and, thus, does not have the right
to copy BOOK₂. The same is true for subsequent third parties who come
to possess the book.

Is such a view really tenable? Can we conceive of property rights
working this way? Even if we can, would it really achieve the desired
result here—preventing third parties from using the protected ideas? It
is difficult to maintain that rights can be reserved in this manner. One
function of property rights, after all, is to prevent conflict and to
put third parties *on notice* as to the property's boundaries. The
borders of property must necessarily be objective and intersubjectively
ascertainable; they must be *visible*.  Only if borders are visible can
they be respected and property rights serve their function of permitting
conflictavoidance. Only if these borders are both visible and
objectively just (justifiable in discourse) *can* they be expected to be
adopted and followed. But think of the two books, BOOK₁ and BOOK₂. How
could one tell the difference between them? How could one see the
rights-tendril connected to the latter but not to the former? How can
third parties be expected to respect an amorphous, invisible, mystical,
spooky, possibly unknown and unknowable property border?

The implications of such a view are troubling. Palmer writes:

> The separation and retention of the right to copy from
> the bundle of rights that we call property is problematic.
> Could one reserve the right, for example, to remember
> something? Suppose that I wrote a book and offered it
> to you to read, but I had retained one right: the right to
> remember it. Would I be justified in taking you to court
> if I could prove that you had remembered the name of
> the lead character in the book?[^86]

[^86]: Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" p. 853.
    Palmer also quotes the following illuminating passages.
    Hegel argued:

    > The substance of an author's or an inventor's right cannot in the
    > first instance be found in the supposition that when he disposes
    > of a single copy of his work, he arbitrarily makes it a condition
    > that the power to produce facsimiles as things, a power which
    > thereupon passes into another's possession, should not become the
    > property of the other but should remain his own. The first
    > question is whether such a separation between ownership of the
    > thing and the power to produce facsimiles which is given with the
    > thing is compatible with the concept of property, or whether it
    > does not cancel the complete and free ownership on which there
    > originally depends the option of the single producer of
    > intellectual work to reserve to himself the power to reproduce, or
    > to part with this power as a thing of value, or to attach no value
    > to it at all and surrender it together with the single exemplar of
    > his work. (*Hegel's Philosophy of Right*, p. 55, quoted in Palmer,
    > "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified?" p. 853 n.  138)

    And, as Kant noted:

    > Those who regard the publication of a book as the exercise of the
    > rights of property in respect of a single copy—it may have come to
    > the possessor as a [manuscript] of the author, or as a work
    > printed by some prior publisher—and who yet would, by the
    > reservation of certain rights, . . . go on to restrict the
    > exercise of property rights, maintaining the illegality of
    > reproduction—will never attain their end. For the rights of an
    > author regarding his own thoughts remain to him notwithstanding
    > the reprint; and as there cannot be a distinct permission given to
    > the purchaser of a book for, and a limitation of, its use as
    > property, how much less is a mere presumption sufficient for such
    > a weight of obligation? (Immanuel Kant, *Von der Unrechtmäßigkeit
    > des Büchernachdrucks*, in 2 "Copyrights and Patents for
    > Inventions" 580 (R. MacFie ed. 1888). zitiert in Palmer,
    > translated and quoted in Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights
    > Morally Justified?" p. 853 n. 138)

    For an alternative translation, see Immanuel Kant,*Essay Three: Of 
    the Injustice of Counterfeiting Books*, trans. John Richardson, ed.
    and rev. Stephen Palmquist (Philopsychy Press, 1994).

But third parties still pose a problem for this theory.  Even if a
seller of an object could somehow "reserve" certain use-rights with
respect to the sold object, how does this prevent third parties from
using *information* apparent from or conveyed in that object? Reserved
rights proponents say *more* than that the immediate buyer *B*₁ is bound
not to reproduce the book; for this result could be obtained by pointing
to the implicit *contract* between seller *A* and buyer *B*₁. Let us
consider a third party, *T*₁, who finds and reads the abandoned book,
thus *learning* the information in it. Alternatively, consider third
party *T*₂, who never has possession of or even sees the book; he merely
learns of the information in the book from gossip, graffiti, unsolicited
e-mail, and so forth. Neither *T*₁ nor *T*₂ has a contract with *A*, but
both now possess certain knowledge.  Even if the book somehow does not
contain within it a "right to reproduce," how can this prevent *T*₁ and
*T*₂ from using their own knowledge? And even if we say that *T*₁ is
somehow "bound" by a contractual copyright notice printed on the book
(an untenable view of contract), how is *T*₂ bound by any contract or
reserved right?

Rothbard attempts to address this point as follows:

> A common objection runs as follows: all right, it would be criminal
> for *Green* [the buyer] to produce and sell the Brown mousetrap; but
> suppose that someone else, Black, who had not made a contract with
> Brown, happens to see Green's mousetrap and then goes ahead and
> produces and sells the replica? Why should *he* be prosecuted? The
> answer is that . . . no one can acquire a *greater* property title in
> something than has already been given away or sold. Green did not own
> the total property right in his mousetrap, in accordance with his
> contract with Brown—but only all rights *except* to sell . . . a
> replica. But therefore Black's title in the mousetrap, the ownership
> of the ideas in Black's head, can be no greater than Green's, and
> therefore he too would be a violator of Brown's property even though
> he himself had not made the actual contract.[^87]

[^87]: Rothbard, *The Ethics of Liberty*, p. 123.

There are several problems with this reasoning. First of all, Black
merely *sees* Green's mousetrap. He does not see or have access to ideas
in Green's head. Nor does he need to have such access in order to
duplicate evident features of the mousetrap.

Further, ideas in one's head are not "owned" any more than labor is
owned. Only scarce resources are owned. By losing sight of scarcity as a
necessary aspect of a homesteadable thing, and of the first occupancy
homesteading rule as the way to own such things, Rothbard and others are
sidetracked into the mistaken notion that ideas and labor can be owned.
If we recognize that ideas cannot be owned (they are not scarce
resources), that creation is neither necessary nor sufficient for
ownership (first occupancy is), and that labor need not be "owned" in
order to be a homesteader, then the trouble caused by these confused
notions disappears.

If Black *somehow* comes into possession of the ideas implicit in an item
which Brown invented (in Rothbard's example, he "happens to see" it), it
is *irrelevant* that the mousetrap may not have had a "right to copy"
built into it.  For Black does not need such permission to use his own
property as he sees fit. How does "happening to see" the mousetrap make
Black a trespasser or violator of Brown's rights?

All action, including action which employs owned scarce means
(property), involves the use of technical knowledge.[^88] Some of this
knowledge may be gained from things we see, including the property of
others. We do not have to have a "right to copy" as part of a bundle of
rights to have a right to impose a known pattern or form on an object we
own.  Rather, we have a right to do *anything at all* with and on our own
property, provided *only* that we do not invade others' property borders.
We must not lose sight of this crucial libertarian point. If I own a
100-acres of land, I can prance around naked on it, *not* because the land
is imbued with some "right-to-prance-naked," but because I *own* the land
and it does not (necessarily) violate the property rights of others for
me to use my property in this fashion.

[^88]: Kinsella, "Knowledge, Calculation, Conflict, and Law"; Jörg Guido
    Hülsmann, "Knowledge, Judgment, and the Use of Property," *Review of
    Austrian Economics* 10, no. 1 (1997), p. 44.

Similarly, I am entitled to do what I want with my own property—my car,
my paper, my word processor—including improving my car's carburetor or
using my ink to print words on my paper. That is, *unless* I have
contractually obligated myself to someone else to restrict my actions
with respect to my use of this knowledge. I do not have to first find in
my property a right-to-use-in-a-certain-way, for all ways of using it,
*except* those that cause invasions of others' property borders, are
already encompassed within the general *right to use* my property. In
libertarianism, we live by right, not permission. We do not need to find
permission to take actions with our own property. Contrary to practice
in totalitarian societies, all things that are not forbidden are
permitted. The reservation-of-rights view would reverse this by assuming
that every use of property is valid only if that particular use-right
can be somehow found or located in the property.

Consider the following analogy. Farmer Jed discovers oil under his land.
No one for miles around knows about the black gold. Jed plans to buy his
neighbors' property for a song; they'll sell it cheap, too, since they
don't know about the oil. In the middle of the night, his nosy neighbor
Cooter, suspicious over Jed's recent good spirits, sneaks onto Jed's
land and discovers the truth. The next morning, at Floyd's barbershop,
Cooter spills his guts to Clem and the boys. One of them promptly runs
to a pay phone and gives a tip to a reporter at the*Wall Street Journal* 
(who happens to be his nephew). Soon, it is common knowledge that there
is oil in the vicinity. The neighbors now demand exorbitant prices for
their land, thus spoiling Jed's plans.

Let us grant that Cooter can be prosecuted for trespass and harms
flowing therefrom. The question is, can Jed's neighbors be prevented
from acting on their knowledge?  That is, may they be forced to somehow
*pretend* that they do not know about the oil, and sell their land to Jed
for what they "would have" sold it when in ignorance? Of course they may
not be so forced. They own their land, and are entitled to use it as
they see fit. Unlike tangible property, information is not ownable; it
is not property. The possessor of a stolen watch may have to return it,
but so long as the acquirer of knowledge does not obtain that knowledge
illicitly or in violation of a contract, he is free to act upon it.

Note, however, that according to the reservation-ofrights view, the
neighbors would not be permitted to act upon their knowledge because
they obtained it ultimately from Cooter, a trespasser who had no "title"
to that knowledge. Thus, they could not have obtained "greater title" to
it than Cooter himself had. Note also that others, such as geological
surveyors mapping oil deposits, cannot include this information in their
maps. They must feign ignorance until given permission by Jed. This
imposed ignorance correlates with the unnatural scarcity imposed by IP.
There is clearly no warrant for the view that reserved rights can
somehow prohibit third parties from using knowledge they acquire.

It is simply not legitimate to restrict the use to which an owner of
property can put it unless that owner has contractually obligated
himself or has otherwise acquired the information by a violation of the
information-holder's rights. Talk of reserving the right to copy is
merely a way to avoid the contractual notion that only parties to a
contract are bound by it.[^89]

[^89]: Of course, in anarcho-capitalism, it is difficult to predict what
    extensive contractual regimes, networks, and institutions will
    arise.  Various enclaves or communities may well require their
    customers, patrons, or "citizens" to abide by certain IP-like rules.
    On anarcho-capitalism, see, e.g., Hans-Hermann Hoppe, "The Private
    Production of Defense," *Journal of Libertarian Studies* 14, no. 1
    (Winter 1998–1999): 27–52.

Therefore, as a general matter, purchasers can be bound by contracts
with sellers to not copy or even re-sell the thing. However, once third
parties become aware of the ideas underlying the invention or literary
work, their use of that knowledge does not, in general, violate any
recognizable property rights of the seller.  Given this view of
scarcity, property, and contract, let us examine the legitimacy of
common forms of IP. 


Copyright and Patent 
--------------------

As should be apparent,
copyright and patent seek to prevent the owners of tangible
property—scarce resources— from using their own property as they see
fit. For example, they are prohibited, under patent law, from practicing
patented methods, using their own property, or from shaping their own
property into patented devices, even if they independently invent the
method or device. Under copyright law, third parties who have not
contracted with the author are prevented from copying or profiting from
the author's original work. Clearly, sellers of novel devices or
literary works can contract with buyers to prevent these buyers from
reproducing, or even re-selling, the item.  These contractual webs can
be elaborate; a novel writer can license his story to a movie studio on
the condition that the studio require all movie theaters to require
customers to agree not to reproduce the plot of the movie, and so on.

Yet, once third parties not bound by a contract acquire this
information, they are free to use it as they see fit. The
reserved-rights approach does not change this. Thus, it would probably
be difficult to maintain anything similar to our present patent and
copyright laws using contract alone.  


Trade Secrets
-------------

Trade secrets are easier to justify than patent or copyright. Palmer
argues that they "emerge" from common lawtype rights, and are, thus,
legitimate.[^90] Trade secret law allows damages to be obtained for, or
an injunction to be issued to prevent, acts of "misappropriation" of a
trade secret. This can be applied against the person who has improperly
acquired the trade secret or who divulges the secret contrary to a
contractual obligation, and also against others who know that they are
obtaining the secret from such a person.[^91]

[^90]: Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics
    Approach," pp. 280, 292–93; and Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights
    Morally Justified?" pp. 854–55.

[^91]: UTSA, § 1; Halligan, "Restatement of the Third Law—Unfair
    Competition: A Brief Summary," § 40, comment d.

Suppose employee *A* of company *X* has access to *X*'s trade secrets,
such as its secret formula for a soft drink. He is subject to an
employment agreement obligating him to keep this formula secret. He then
jumps to X's competitor, *Y*. *Y* wants to use the formula it learns
from *A* to compete with *X*. Under current law, so long as the secret
formula has not been made public, *X* can get a court order to stop *A*
from revealing the secret to *Y*. If *A* has already revealed the secret
to *Y*, *X* can also get an injunction to stop *Y* from using or
publicizing the formula.

Clearly, the injunction and damages against *A* are proper because *A*
is in violation of his contract with *X*.  More questionable is the
injunction against *Y*, because *Y* had no contract with *X*. In the
context in which such situations usually arise, however, where the
competitor *Y* wants the trade secret and knows the defecting employee
is in breach of contract, it could be argued that the competitor *Y* is
acting in conspiracy with or as an accomplice of employee *A* to violate
the (contractual) rights of trade secret holder *X*. This is because *A*
has not actually breached his trade secrecy agreement until he reveals
trade secrets to *Y*. If *Y* actively solicits *A* to do this, then *Y*
is an accomplice or co-conspirator in the violation of *X*'s rights.
Thus, just as the driver of the getaway car in a bank robbery, or the
mafia boss who orders an assassination, are properly held liable for
acts of aggression committed by others with whom they conspire, third
parties can, in narrowly defined cases, be prevented from using a trade
secret obtained from the trade secret thief.[^92]

[^92]: On responsibility for conduct of another or for conspiracy, see,
    e.g., Texas Penal Code, §§ 7.02 (Criminal Responsibility for Conduct
    of Another), and 15.02 (criminal conspiracy). For definitions of
    "abet," "accessory," "accomplice," "aid and abet," "concert," and
    "conspiracy," see *Black's Law Dictionary*.


Trademarks
----------

Palmer also argues that trademark law is legitimate.93 Suppose some
Lachmannian changes the name on his failing hamburger chain from
LachmannBurgers to Rothbard Burgers, which is already the name of
another hamburger chain. I, as a consumer, am hungry for a
RothbardBurger.  I see one of the fake RothbardBurger joints run by the
stealthy Lachmannian, and I buy a burger. Under current law, Rothbard,
the "owner" of the RothbardBurgers trademark, can prevent the
Lachmannian from using the mark RothbardBurgers to sell burgers because
it is "confusingly similar" to his own trademark. That is, it is likely
to mislead consumers as to the true source of the goods purchased.  The
law, then, gives a right to the trademark holder against the trademark
infringer.

[^93]: Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and Economics
    Approach," p. 280.

In my view, it is the *consumers* whose rights are violated, not the
trademark holder's. In the foregoing example, I (the consumer) thought I
was buying a RothbardBurger, but instead got a crummy LachmannBurger
with its weird kaleidoscopic sauce. I should have a right to sue the
Lachmannian for fraud and breach of contract (not to mention intentional
infliction of emotional distress and misrepresentation of praxeological
truths). However, it is difficult to see how this act of fraud,
perpetrated by the Lachmannian on *me*, violates *Rothbard*'s rights.
The Lachmannian's actions do not physically invade Rothbard's property.
He does not even convince others to do this; at most, he may be said to
convince third parties to take an action within their rights, namely, to
buy a burger from the Lachmannian instead of Rothbard. Thus, it would
appear that, under libertarianism, trademark law should give
*consumers*, not trademark *users*, the right to sue trademark pirates.

Moreover, more novel extensions of trademark, such as rights against
trademark dilution or against certain forms of cybersquatting, cannot be
justified. Just as a trademark holder does not have a right to his mark,
neither does he have a right against his mark's dilution. The law
against cybersquatting is simply based on an economically ignorant
opposition to "scalping" and arbitrage. There is, of course, nothing
wrong with being the first to acquire a domain name and thereafter
selling it to the highest bidder.

CONCLUSION
==========

We see, then, that a system of property rights in "ideal objects"
necessarily requires violation of other individual property rights,
e.g., to use one's own tangible property as one sees fit.[^94] Such a
system requires a new homesteading rule which subverts the firstoccupier
rule. IP, at least in the form of patent and copyright, cannot be
justified.

[^94]: See Palmer, "Intellectual Property: A Non-Posnerian Law and
    Economics Approach," p. 281; and Palmer, "Are Patents and Copyrights
    Morally Justified?" pp. 831, 862, 864–65.  60 — Against Intellectual
    Property

It is not surprising that IP attorneys, artists, and inventors often
seem to take for granted the legitimacy of IP.  However, those more
concerned with liberty, truth, and rights should not take for granted
the institutionalized use of force used to enforce IP rights. Instead,
we should reassert the primacy of individual rights over our bodies and
homesteaded scarce resources.

APPENDIX
========

SOME QUESTIONABLE EXAMPLES OF PATENTS AND COPYRIGHTS
----------------------------------------------------

Some exemplary U.S. patents:[^95]
*  "Christmas Tree Stand Watering System," U.S.  Pat. No. 4,993,176, Feb.
19, 1991 (Christmas tree watering stand shaped like Santa Claus);

*  "Initiation Apparatus," U.S. Pat. No. 819,814, May 8, 1906 ("harmless"
way of initiating a candidate into a fraternity by shocking him with
electrodes);

*  "Method of Exercising a Cat," U.S. Pat. No.  5,443,036, Aug. 22, 1995
(shining a laser light onto the floor to fascinate a cat and cause it
to chase the light);

*  "Pat on the Back Apparatus," U.S. Pat. No.  4,608,967, Sep. 2, 1986
(apparatus with simulated human hand to pat the user on the back);

*  "Hyper-Light-Speed Antenna," U.S. Pat. No.  6,025,810, Feb. 15, 2000
(poking hole in another "dimension" to transmit RF waves at
faster-than-light speed, incidentally accelerating plant growth);

*  "Force-Sensitive, Sound-Playing Condom," U.S.  Pat. No. 5,163,447,
Nov. 17, 1992 (self-explanatory; for example, it could play "Dixie");

*  "Method and System for Placing a Purchase Order via a Communications
Network," U.S.  Pat. No. 5,960,411, Sep. 28, 1999 (Amazon.com's
"one-click" method for purchasing an item on the world wide web by
single mouse-click);

*  "Financial Certificates, System and Process," U.S.  Pat. No.
6,017,063, Jan. 25, 2000 (inflationindexed gift certificate or mutual
fund share);

*  "Method and System for Measuring Leadership Effectiveness," U.S. Pat.
No. 6,007,340, Dec.  28, 1999 (assigned to Electronic Data Systems
Corporation);

*  "Sanitary Appliance for Birds," U.S. Pat. No.  2,882,858, April 21,
1959 (bird diaper);

*  "Religious Soap," U.S. Pat. No. 3,936,384, Feb.  3, 1976 (bar of soap
with religious design on one side and prayer on the other); and

*  "Method of Preserving the Dead," U.S. Pat. No.  748,284, Dec. 29, 1903
   (preserving dead person's head in block of glass).

[^95]: These and other patents may be retrieved at
    http://www.delphion.com, http://www.uspto.gov/patft/index.html, or
    http://www.patentgopher.com. See also "Wacky Patent of the Month,"
    http://colitz.com/site/wacky.htm; IBM, "Gallery of Obscure Patents,"
    http://www.patents.ibm.com/gallery; and Greg Aharonian,
    "Bustpatents," http://www.bustpatents.com.

Copyright law, while it has not led to as many clearly absurd
applications, has also been extended greatly by the courts. Originally
intended to cover literary works, the concept has been stretched so that
authored "works" include computer programs, and even machine language
and object code, which is more analogous to a machine part, such as a
cam, than to a literary work.[^96]

[^96]: *Final Report, National Commission on New Technological Uses
    (CONTU) of Copyright Works*, July 31, 1978 (Washington, D.C.:
    Library of Congress, 1979); *Apple Computer, Inc. v Franklin
    Computer Corporation*, 714 F2d 1240 (3d Cir 1983); *NEC Corp.  and
    NEC Electronics, Inc. v Intel Corp*., 1989 Copr.L.Dec. ¶ 26,379,
    1989 WL 67434 (ND Cal 1989).

